
No.126

## REGULATIONSREGARDINGTHESUBMISSIONOF INTERCONNECTIONAGREEMENTSANDTARIFFS

TheBoardoftheCommunicationsRegulatoryAuthorityofNamibia,intermsofsections49and 53,read with section129 of the CommunicationsAct,2009(Act No.8 of 2009),publishes these "RegulationsRegarding the Submission of InterconnectionAgreements and Tariffs",effective from thedatetheActcomesintooperationasdeterminedby theMinisterintermsofsection136(1)of the Act.

## Definitions

1. In these regulations,any word or expression to which a meaning is assigned in the Act, shall have the same meaning and -
2. "Act"means the Communications Act,2009(Act No.8of 2009);
3. "DomesticInterconnectionAgreement"meansaninterconnectionagreement concludedbetween persons who are licensed to provide services in Namibia or who are providing services in Namibia thatmaybeprovidedwithoutalicence;and
4. "International InterconnectionAgreement"means aninterconnection agreement concluded between a personwhois licensed toprovide services inNamibia orwhoisproviding servicesinNamibia thatmaybeprovidedwithout a licence,anda person authorised toprovideservicesin ajurisdiction outsideofNamibia.

## Submission ofdocumentstotheAuthority

2. In these regulations"submit in writing to theAuthority"means either physically or electronically-
- (1) byhand to thehead offices of the Authority,namely CommunicationHouse,56 Robert Mugabe Avenue,Windhoek;
- (2) by post to thehead offices of theAuthority,namelyPrivateBag13309,Windhoek 9000;
- (3) by electronic mail to thefollowing address:cran@cran.na;
- (4) byfacsimile to thefollowingfacsimilenumber:+26461238646;or
- (5) in anyothermanner or at alternative addressesset outbytheAuthorityfromtime to time.

## Applicability

3. (1) Theseregulationsare applicable to thesubmission ofinterconnection agreements to theAuthority in terms of sections 49(4) and (16) of theAct.
- (2) Theseregulations are applicable to the submission andamendment of tariffs in terms of sections53(6) and (7) of the Act.

## COMMUNICATIONSREGULATORYAUTHORITYOFNAMIBIA

## Interconnection agreements

- to theAuthoritycopiesof all DomesticInterconnectionAgreementswithinthetimesetoutinsection 49(4)of theAct.

- (2)All domestic parties to International Interconnection Agreements must submit in writingtotheAuthoritycopiesofallInternationalInterconnectionAgreementswithinthetimeset outinsection49(16)oftheAct.

- (3)The Authoritymay request further information or documentationregarding the submittedinterconnection agreements,which must beprovided to theAuthorityin the time and the manner set out by the Authority.

- (4)All interconnection agreements submitted in terms of theseregulationsmust include a coverlettercontainingthename andcontactdetailsof thepersonsubmitting the agreement and the nameandcontactdetailsofthepersonforwhomtheagreementissubmitted,ifdifferent.

## Decisions and publication of interconnection agreements

- 5.(l)After considering a Domestic Interconnection Agreement and any further writteninformation or documentationregarding theinterconnection agreement,theAuthoritymust approve or disapprovetheinterconnectionagreement inthemannersetoutinsection49(6)of the Act.

- (2)After considering an International Interconnection Agreement and any further writteninformationordocumentationregardingtheinterconnectionagreement,theAuthoritymust determinewhetherithasthe effect of impairingcompetition or the interoperability of networks,and if it does,hold a hearing to impose obligations on the licensee as contemplated in section 49(17) of theAct.

- (3)TheAuthority must maintain a register of interconnection agreements submitted to it andcopiesof all interconnection agreements,physicallyat thehead officesof theAuthorityand if practicable,electronically,ontheAuthority'swebsite.

- (4) )Anypersonmay examine theregister of interconnection agreements andcopiesof interconnectionagreementseitherattheheadofficesoftheAuthorityduringnormalbusinesshours andcopiesmaybemadeonpaymentofafeedeterminedbytheAuthority,orifavailableonthe Authority'swebsitewherecopiesmaybedownloadedfreeofcharge.

## Oralhearingsregardinginternational interconnection agreements

6. (1） If theAuthoritydeterminesthat anInternational InterconnectionAgreement has the effect of impairing competition or the interoperability of networks,the Authority must invite thelicenseeandthepublictomakeoralsubmissionsbynoticeintheGovernmentGazetteatleast fourteen(14)daysprior tothehearing.

- (2) Unless otherwise specified by the Authority, hearings will be open to the public.

- (3)The format and agenda of the hearing is at the discretion of the Authority,provided however,thehearingshouldbeinformal innature.

- (4) All oral submissions must -

- (a) includeastatementofthenameandcontactdetailsofthepersonmakingtheoral submissionandthenameandcontactdetailsofthepersonforwhomtheoral submissionismade,if different;

- (b) be clear and concise;and
- (c) conformtoanyfurtherrequirementsdeterminedbytheAuthorityfromtimetotime.
- (5) If theAuthorityconsidersitnecessary,it will provide the opportunity tothelicensee torespond to oral submissions.
- (6)TheAuthoritymayrequestfurtheroral orwritten submissions,forexample,further information or clarification,which must be provided to the Authorityin the time and the manner set outby theAuthority.
- (7) At the conclusion of the hearing, a concise report summarising the oral submissions must be prepared and placed in the relevant file by the Authority.

## Tariffs

- 7.(1) Allpersonswhoareentitledtoacomprehensivetelecommunicationsservice licencein the licence transition process in terms of section135 of theAct,must submit inwriting to theAuthorityatariffwithinthetimesetoutinsection53(6)oftheAct,oranamendmenttoa tariff contemplated in section53(7) of theAct within thetime set out in section53(8) of theAct.
- (2) The tariffs and amendments must complywith theprovisionsof section53 of the Act, including sections 53(8),(9), and (18).
- (3)The Authority may request further information or documentation regarding the submitted tariffsandamendments,whichmustbeprovidedtotheAuthorityin thetimeandthe mannersetoutby theAuthority.
- (4)All tariffs and amendments submitted in terms of these regulations must include a coverlettercontainingthenameandcontactdetailsofthepersonsubmittingthetariffandthename and contact details of thepersonforwhomthe tariff is submitted,if different.

## Decisionsandpublicationoftariffs

8. (1） After thesubmissionof a tariffortariff amendment,theAuthoritywill as soonas is practicable,publisha notice of the submissionin the Government Gazette.
(2)The Authority must maintain copies of all tariffs submitted to it at the head offices oftheAuthorityandifpracticable,ontheAuthority'swebsite.
(3)Any person may examine copies the tariffs and tariff amendments submitted at the head offices of the Authority during normal business hours and copies may be made on payment of a feedeterminedby theAuthority,or,if practicable,on theAuthority'swebsitewherecopiesmaybe downloadedfreeofcharge.
(4)After considering the tariff or tariff amendment and anyfurtherwritteninformation or documentation, the Authority must take such action as is contemplated in sections 53(12-19) of the Act.
(5)The Authority must maintain a register of approved tariffs and tariff amendments (to beknown as theregister of tariffs),and copies of all such tariffs and tariff amendments,at thehead officesoftheAuthorityandifpracticable,ontheAuthority'swebsite.
- (6) Anyperson may examine the register of tariffs and copies of approved tariffs and tariff amendmentseither at the head officesof theAuthority duringnormal businesshours andcopies maybemade onpayment of a fee determinedby theAuthority,or,if available,on theAuthority's websitewhere copiesmaybe downloadedfreeof charge.

## Written submissions on tariffs

9. (1)After theAuthoritypublishes a Government Gazettenoticereferred toin regulation8(1),thepublicmaysubmit inwritingtotheAuthoritywrittencommentswithinfourteen (14) daysfrom thedate of publicationof thenotice.

- (2) Thepersonwhosubmitted the tariffortariff amendmentmaysubmitinwritingto the Authority a response to anywritten commentswithinfourteen(14) daysfrom the lapsingof the timetosubmitwrittensubmissions.

- (3)The Authority may consider written submissions not timeously filed if,in its opinion, it is practicable to do so.

- (4)The Authority may request further written submissions,for example,further informationorclarification,whichmustbeprovidedtotheAuthorityinthetime andthemannerset out by the Authority.

- (5) Allwritten submissionsmust-

- (a) containthenameandcontactdetailsofthepersonmakingthewrittensubmissions andthenameandcontactdetailsofthepersonforwhomthewrittensubmissionis made,if different;and

- (b) be clear and concise;and

- (c) conformtoanyfurtherrequirementsdeterminedbytheAuthorityfromtimetotime.

## Confidentialinformation

10. (1） Anypersonsubmittingdocumentsormakingwrittensubmissionstothe Authority in terms of these regulationsmay designate information as confidential,provided,however, iftheAuthorityisoftheopinionthattheinformationisnotconfidential,itmustinformtheperson thatheorshemaywithdrawtheinformation,agreethatitwillnotbetreated asconfidential,or request a hearing on theissue of confidentiality tobe conducted in terms of section 28of theAct, provided howeverthat tariffs and interconnection agreements themselves arenot confidential.

- (2)Any person making oral submissions may request a closed hearing on the grounds thatthesubmissionsareconfidential,providedhoweverthattariffsandinterconnectionagreements themselves arenotconfidential.A closed hearingwill be treated as aconfidentialmeetingin terms of section29 of theAct,and the notice of the closedmeetingrequiredby section29(4) must be maintainedintherelevantfile.

## Condonation

- 11.(1) In the event anypartyis unable to complywith the times set out in these regulations,they may request from the Authority an extension of time at least seven(7) days prior to the time setout.

- (2) TheAuthoritywill respond to therequest for condonationwithin two(2) days,and mayeithergrant ordeny therequest,inits solediscretion,based on,amongotherthings,thenature of the proceeding and the reasons for non-compliance with the times set out.

## Ex parte communications

- 12.(1)A person may not communicate with the members of the Board to discuss thesubjectmatterofasubmissionmadeintermsof theseregulations,unlessarequest todosois

**addressed to**  
THE Chairperson of the Board,has been granted,and provided that the person and the Boardbothmustsubmit areport totheAuthoritysummarisingthesubstanceof thediscussionand indicatingwhomwascommunicatedwithandwhen

- (2) Apersonmay communicate with the CEOor staffmembersof,or consultants to theAuthority,attheofficialpremisesof theAuthority,todiscuss thesubjectmatterofasubmission made in terms of theseregulations,provided however,theperson and the CEOor staffmembers of, orconsultantstotheAuthoritybothmust submit areport totheAuthority summarisingthesubstance ofthediscussionandindicatingwhomwascommunicatedwithandwhen.

## Recordofproceedings