

## GOVERNMENT GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA

## CONTENTS

Page

## GENERAL NOTICE

No. 106

Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the regulations regarding

transitional procedures for telecommunications and broadcasting service licences and spectrum use

licences 

---

## General Notice

N$4.00

WINDHOEK - 16 April 2012

No. 4930

## COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

No. 106

NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING TRANSITIONAL PROCEDURES FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND BROADCASTING SERVICE LICENCES AND SPECTRUM USE LICENCES

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of Regulation 9(10) and 16 of the 'Regulations Regarding Transitional Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences and Spectrum Use Licences', in Government Gazette No. 4737, Notice No. 171, dated 17 June 2011 herewith gives notice of the following person whose existing licence has been converted and is issued with a Telecommunications Service Licence in terms of the 'Regulations Setting Out Broadcasting and Telecommunications Service Licence Categories' in Government Gazette No. 4714, Notice No. 124, dated 18 May 2011.

The license is issued subject to the conditions for Telecommunications Service Licences to be published in terms of the Regulations Regarding Rule-making Procedures.

## REASON FOR DECISION:

The Authority issues this decision based on the following reason:

The person whose licence has been converted complied with the Regulations Regarding Transitional Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licenses and Spectrum Use Licenses as published in Government Gazette 4737, No. 171, dated 17 June 2011.

## The following is a list of the person whose licence has been converted, with effect from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette .

|   No | Licensee                   | Licence Fees Outstanding?   | Percentage of Stock owned by Namibian Citizens or Namibian Companies Controlled by Namibian Citizens   | Licensee's Citizenship or Place of Incorporation   | New Type of Telecommunications Licence(s) Issued                      | Date of Expiry of Licence(s)                                                                                                         |
|------|----------------------------|-------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|   1. | PowerCom (Pty) Ltd t/a Leo | No                            | 0% 1                                                                                                   | Namibia                                              | Class Comprehensive Telecommunications Service Licence (ECS and ECNS) | Subject to the conditions for telecommunications service licenses to be published in terms of the rule-making procedure regulations. |

**L. N. JACOBS**  
CHAIRPERSON BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

1 Subject to section 46(2) of the Communications Act (Act No. 8 of 2009). Namibian Company not controlled by Namibian citizens.