
N$13.60

## GOVERNMENT GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA

WINDHOEK - 30 January 2015

## CONTENTS

No. 5659

Page

| GENERALNOTICES   | GENERALNOTICES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |    |
|------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----|
| No. 22           | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Regulations in respect of Type Approval and Technical Standards for Telecommunications Equipment: Communications Act, 2009                                                                                                                                                     |  2 |
| No. 23           | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice of Determination of Lapsing of Broadcasting Service Licence in terms of Regulation 12(4) of the Regulations Regarding Licence Conditions for Broadcasting Service Licences             | 20 |
| No. 24           | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations Regarding the Submissions of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs                                                                                                                            | 21 |
| No. 25           | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations Regarding the Submissions of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs                                                                                                                            | 23 |
| No. 26           | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences and Spectrum Use Licences   | 25 |
| No. 27           | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences and Spectrum Use Licences   | 27 |
| No. 28           | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences and Spectrum Use Licences   | 28 |
| No. 29           | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences and Spectrum Use Licences   | 30 |
| No. 30           | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences and Spectrum Use Licences   | 32 |

---

No. 22

## REGULATIONS IN RESPECT OF TYPE APPROVAL AND TECHNICAL STANDARDS FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of section 80 read with section 129 of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009) and the 'Regulations Regarding Rule-Making Procedures: Communications Act, 2009' published as General Notice No. 334 in the Government Gazette No. 4630 dated 17 December 2010, hereby publishes these 'Regulations in respect of Type Approval and Technical Standards for Telecommunications Equipment' which will be in force and effective six (6) months from date of publication, which date shall be 3 August 2015.

## Definitions

1. In these regulations, any word or expression to which a meaning is assigned in the Act, shall have the same meaning and -

' accredited test laboratory' means any laboratory accredited by its own national accreditation body or another recognised accreditation body in terms of International Organisation for Standardisation/ International Electrotechnical Commission(ISO/IEC) requirements;

' Act ' means the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009);

- ' applicant ' means a person applying for type approval of telecommunications equipment in accordance with these regulations;
- ' Authority ' means the Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia as established in terms of Section 4 of the Communications Act, Act 8 of 2009;
- ' Customs ' means the Department of Customs and Excise within the Ministry of Finance.
- ' declaration of conformity ' means a written declaration issued by an applicant or manufacturer or supplier of telecommunications equipment in accordance with ISO/IEC 17050-1 requirements for which type approval is sought conforms to these regulations and applicable technical standards;

'electronic communications' means any emission, transmission or reception of sound, pictures, text or any other information by wire, radio waves, optical media, electromagnetic systems or any other means of a like nature;

'electronic communications network' means any system of electronic communications facilities, including without limitation-

- (a) satellite systems;
- (b) fixed systems (circuit- and packet-switched);
- (c) mobile systems;
- (d) fibre optic cables (undersea and land-based);

## General Notices

## COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

- (e) electricity cable systems (to the extent used for electronic communications services); and
- (f) other transmission systems, used for conveyance of electronic communications;

' electronic communications service ' means a service provided to the public, sections of the public, the State, or the subscribers to such service, which consists wholly or mainly of the conveyance by any means of electronic communications over an electronic communications network;

' foreign regulatory authority ' means a regulatory authority outside Namibia, which performs the same or substantially the same functions as the Authority and whose standards are acceptable to the Authority;

'telecommunications equipment' means communications or networking equipment with an interface to public network or wide area network services and includes but not limited to telecommunications terminal equipment, information technology equipment (including but not limited to a digital set-top box decoder), radio communication equipment powered by means of an internal or external electrical AC/DC energy source and electronic communications network equipment.

' the website ' means the website of the Authority with URL: www.cran.na.

'type approval' means -

- (a) The process undertaken by the Authority of authorising the use of telecommunications equipment in Namibia, involving the verification of such equipment's conformity to and compatibility with the Act, applicable technical standards and other regulatory requirements; or
- (b) the process undertaken by the Authority of examining and testing telecommunications equipment so as to determine whether such equipment has passed performance tests and quality assurance tests, and meets qualification criteria in accordance with applicable technical standards and other regulatory requirements.

' type approval fees ' means fees relating to type approval as set out in Annexure 2 of these regulations;

' type approval certificate ' means a certificate issued by the Authority to an applicant confirming that such applicant's telecommunications equipment has been type approved;

' type approval register' means a register kept by the Authority pursuant to section 27 of the Act that contains basic technical and compliance information on all type approved telecommunications equipment, including any conditions the Authority attached to such type approval.

## Submission of documents to the Authority

- 2 . In these regulations 'submit in writing to the Authority' means either physically or electronically -
- (1) by hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (2) by post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek 9000;
- (3) by electronic mail to the following address: operations@cran.na;

- (4) by facsimile to the following facsimile number: +264 61 222 790; or
- (5) in any other manner or at alternative addresses set out by the Authority from time to time.

## Purpose

3. (1) The purpose of these regulations is to establish a type approval procedure to ensure that-

- (a) telecommunications equipment used in Namibia comply with international standards applicable in Namibia;
- (b) no sub-standard equipment which may represent health and safety hazards to consumers in general are operated in Namibia;
- (c) consumers are protected from products that are incompatible with local networks; and
- (d) the operating frequency of telecommunications equipment, generally and radio apparatus in particular are in conformance with the national frequency band plan in Namibia so that no harmful interference is caused to essential services.

## Applicability

4. (1) These regulations apply to-
- (a) all persons (whether legal or natural persons) who use, sell, offer for sale or connect telecommunications equipment to an electronic communications network within the Republic of Namibia; and
- (b) all telecommunications equipment used, sold, offered for sale or connected to an electronic communications network within the Republic Namibia.
- (c) all radio communications equipment or apparatus' pursuant to the Regulations regarding Licence Exempt Spectrum published in Government Gazette No. 4839, General Notice No. 395 dated 25 November 2011.
- (2) These Regulations shall bind the State.

## Telecommunication equipment requiring type approval

5. (1) Any person or entity who intends to -
- (a) connect telecommunications equipment to an electronic communication network in Namibia for purposes of electronic communications;
- (b) use, sell or offer for sale telecommunications equipment within the Republic of Namibia.

must apply for type approval to the Authority in respect of such telecommunications equipment prior to the use, connection, sale or re-sale thereof within the Republic of Namibia.

(2) Notwithstanding sub-regulation (1), telecommunications equipment that is temporarily imported into Namibia for re-export does not require type approval.

- (3) All telecommunications equipment type approved by the former Namibian Communications Commission (NCC) in respect of which type approval certificates were issued should be submitted to the Authority for a re-assessment within six (6) from xxxxxxxxx of these regulations in order to be transitioned and be type approved in terms of the Act and these regulations.

## Registration of supplier

6. (1) An applicant will be registered as a supplier of telecommunications equipment on the database of the Authority upon approval of such Applicant's application for type approval.
- (2) Registration of an applicant as supplier will happen once the supplier of telecommunications equipment applies for type approval for such equipment.
- (3) Suppliers must inform the Authority if any of their registration details have changed within fourteen (14) days from the date when such registration details have changed.

## Application procedures

7. (1) An applicant must submit an application on Form 1 set out in Annexure 1 of these Regulations in respect of telecommunications equipment requiring type approval.
- (2) An application for type approval must be accompanied by-
- (a) personal identification, a certificate of incorporation or a valid trade licence in the name of the applicant;
- (b) a declaration of conformity in accordance with regulation 7;
- (c) technical, physical, operational, installation and user information;
- (d) software and firmware numbers of the telecommunications equipment being type approved;
- (e) all other documentation as required by Part 5 of the application form;
- (f) proof of payment of the applicable type approval fees as stipulated in Annexure 2.
- (3) All copies of original documents submitted to the Authority in respect hereof should be certified copies, which has been certified by a Commissioner of Oath.
- (4) The Authority may require an applicant to submit additional information as proof of complying with the applicable technical standards.
- (5) An application form is not complete unless accompanied by the documents required in terms of sub-regulation (2) and where applicable, sub-regulation (4).
- (6) In addition to the requirements of sub-regulation (2), the Authority may request an applicant for a sample of the telecommunications equipment requiring type approval for examination and testing to determine whether such equipment has passed performance tests and quality assurance tests, and meets the qualification criteria in accordance with applicable technical standards and other regulatory requirements.
- (7) Samples of telecommunications communications equipment referred to in subregulation (6) must be-

(a) in good and proper working condition;

(b) properly configured for testing, complete with the necessary test adaptors, and

(c) clearly marked with the trade name, model and serial number.

(8) If the Authority requires clarification in respect of technical details or other specifications of the telecommunications equipment requiring type approval, or any other information or documentation required in terms hereof, the Authority may require the applicant to provide such clarification within fourteen (14) days from the date of such request by the Authority.

(9) The Authority will not be able to consider an application for type approval favourably if the applicant fails to respond to a request for clarification contemplated by sub-regulation (8) or fails to respond within the timeframe specified by the Authority.

(10) If an application for type approval does not comply with criteria and / or requirements as contained in these regulations the Authority must reject the application and notify the applicant in which respects the application is non-compliant.

(11) An unsuccessful applicant may address any non-compliance and submit a new application for type approval in terms of the procedures provided for in these regulations.

(12) If the Authority is satisfied that all the requirements of these regulations have been met, the Authority may issue a type approval certificate to the successful applicant, subject to such conditions that the Authority may impose.

(13) The type approval certificate referred to in sub-regulation (12) shall contain a registration number.

(14) All type approved telecommunications equipment must be entered on the type approval register which the Authority will publish on its website from time to time.

(15) If type approved telecommunications equipment undergoes a change of model, design, function and/or specifications, the type approval certificate will no longer be valid for the telecommunications equipment that underwent such change of model, design and/or specifications.

(16) A type approval certificate is no longer valid, if in terms of sub-regulation (15), the telecommunications equipment that underwent a change of model, design, function or specifications will require to be type approved in terms of these regulations.

## Declaration of conformity and criteria for approval

8. (1) The Authority may accept a declaration of conformity by an applicant if accompanied by a certified copy of test reports and data issued by an accredited test laboratory confirming conformity of the telecommunications equipment for which type approval is sought with the applicable technical standards.

(2) In an application for type approval, the applicant must submit the test reports and data referred to in sub-regulation (1) without any modification whatsoever.

(3) In assessing an application for type approval, the Authority will take into account whether the test reports and data referred to in sub-regulation (1) were submitted and accepted by a foreign regulatory authority.

(4) The Authority shall not have regard to any test report and data accompanying a declaration of conformity in terms of sub-regulation (1) if such report and data are older than 5 years.

- (5) The Authority may regard a declaration of conformity and its accompanying test reports and data as valid if such declaration, test report and data were prepared for the telecommunications equipment for which application for type approval is made and if no modification to the equipment was made following the completion of the test reports.
- (6) The Authority is under no obligation to accept the test reports and may at its sole discretion require equipment to undergo another test

## Decision by the Authority

9. (1) The Authority shall consider only complete applications for type approval and make a decision as to whether the application is approved or not, withinfourty (40) days from the date of the submission of the application to the Authority by the Applicant.
- (2) The Authority should determine and/ or confirm whether the telecommunications equipment, for which type approval is applied for, complies with the required technical standards in respect of that particular telecommunications equipment.
- (3) In the event that an application for type approval has been approved by the Authority, such decision shall in addition, be published on the official website of the Authority with the reasons for its decision, within seven (7) days from the date that the decision has been made.
- (4) In the event that an application for type approval has been approved by the Authority, such applicant shall then be accordingly issued with a type approval certificate by the Authority.

## Effect of successful application for type approval

- 10 . (1) The exclusive right to use the registration number for type approved telecommunications equipment belongs to the person or entity to whom a type approval certificate has been issued.
- (2) Any other person may import or sell telecommunications equipment of the same brand name and model number as type approved telecommunications equipment only if such person obtained the prior written consent of the holder of the type approval certificate in respect of such type approved equipment or such person obtained a type approval certificate therefor.
- (3) The holder of a type approval certificate may only use, sell, offer for sale or connect telecommunications equipment to an electronic communications network which are identical in all material respects to the type approved telecommunications equipment in respect of which the type approval certificate has been issued.
- (4) A type approval certificate is not transferable to any other natural person or juristic person except with the prior written approval of the Authority.
- (5) After registration, any telecommunications equipment sample submitted at the request of the Authority may be returned to the applicant but the Authority may retain any related documents for reference purposes.
- (6) A type approval certificate is ordinarily valid for a period of three (3) years and may be renewed by the Authority at the written request of the holder of such certificate within a period of not less than thirty (30) days and not more than sixty (60) days prior to the date upon which the certificate will lapse after the three years validity period; and upon the submission of such documents as the Authority may require provided that-

- (a) no modification in respect of the model, design, function, or other information recorded in the type approval certificate or type approval register is made to the type approved telecommunications equipment;
- (b) no significant changes are made to the technical specifications of the type approved telecommunications equipment, including but not limited to -
- (i) the operating frequency band; and
- (ii) RF power and technical standards upon which the telecommunications equipment was type approved.
- (7) Neither the grant of type approval, nor the acceptance of test results in terms of these regulations may not be construed as a guarantee by the Authority for the proper functioning, performance or quality of the type approved telecommunications equipment.
- (8) The holder of a type approval certificate must ensure that the type approved telecommunications equipment inter-connects properly with electronic communication networks in Namibia.
- (9) The Authority shall not be liable for interference caused to other equipment, injury, loss of life or damage to property arising from the direct or indirect use of the type approved telecommunications equipment.
- (10) A network operator may not refuse connection of type approved telecommunications equipment unless there are reasonable grounds, as determined by the Authority, that such connection should be refused.

## Monitoring compliance and inspections

11. (1) The Authority may perform market surveillance activities from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Chapter X of the Act.
- (2) The holders of type approval certificates must cooperate in such activities and may be required by the Authority to provide, without charge to the Authority, samples of telecommunications equipment and documentation.
- (3) If any person is found to be in non-compliance with these regulations or the applicable technical standards, the person must forthwith cease to use, sell or offer for sell or connect the telecommunications equipment to an electronic communications network or type of telecommunications equipment concerned and dispose thereof at their own expense as directed by the Authority.
- (4) The Authority may seize non type approved telecommunications equipment that does not comply with applicable technical standards or these regulations or that belongs to a category of telecommunications equipment for which type approval is required as contemplated in these regulations and that has not been so approved.

## Revocation of type approval certificate

12. (1) Where the Authority is satisfied upon an investigation conducted in terms of Chapter X of the Act that-
- (a) any information provided to the Authority by the holder of a type approval certificate is found to be counterfeited or false;

- (b) type approved telecommunications equipment does not comply with applicable technical standards or these regulations;
- (c) there is a breach of any condition endorsed on the type approval certificate;
- (d) type approved telecommunications equipment is causing or likely to cause harmful interference to an electronic communications network or is a risk to human health or the environment,

the Authority may by written notice to the holder of a type approval certificate inform such holder that the Authority intends to cancel the type approval certificate, and in such notice state the grounds for such intended action and require the holder of the type approval certificate to cease the distribution and selling of such equipment with immediate effect.

- (2) A holder of a type approval certificate may, within fifteen (15) days from the date of receipt of a notice referred to in sub-regulation (1), make written representations to the Authority on good cause shown as to why the certificate should not be cancelled.
- (3) After consideration of the representations referred to in sub-regulation (2) or, if no such representations have been made, upon the expiry of the period mentioned in that sub-regulation, the Authority may-
- (a) if the Authority is satisfied that it is just and equitable to do so in the particular case, by written notice to the registered holder of a type approval certificate withdraw the notice referred to in sub-regulation (1); or
- (b) by written notice to the holder of the type approval certificate cancel the certificate.
- (4) All telecommunications equipment that is the subject of a cancelled type approval certificate must be withdrawn from the market at the cost of the holder of the cancelled certificate within thirty (30) days from the date of receipt of the written notice referred to in paragraph (b) of sub-regulation (3).

## Fees

13. (1) The Authority will charge type approval fees in accordance with Annexure 2 of these regulations which shall be applicable per equipment category as indicated in Annexure 2 hereof.
- (2) All fees are payable in advance and are non-refundable.
- (3) The fees set out in Annexure 2 will be adjusted in accordance with the Consumer Price Index as published by the Namibia Statistics Agency from time to time or such other percentage determined by the Authority.
- (4) Fees adjusted annually as contemplated in sub-regulation (3) must be published annually in the Government Gazette by the Authority.

## Prohibited telecommunications equipment

14. (1) The Authority may from time to time publish a list of prohibited telecommunications equipment on its website.
- (2) No person may import, sell, offer for sale or connect telecommunications equipment appearing on the list referred to in sub-regulation (1).

- (3) The Authority may in conjunction with relevant Government agencies restrict the importation of any telecommunications equipment into Namibia, where the Authority is satisfied that such equipment may cause damage or harmful interference to electronic communications networks or poses a risk to public health and safety or the environment.
- (4) An applicant, being a natural and/or legal person, who intends to use, sell, offer for sale or connect telecommunications equipment to an electronic communications network within the Republic of Namibia, shall not be allowed to import such telecommunications equipment into the Republic of Namibia without a type approval certificate issued by the Authority.

## Amendment of technical standards

15. (1) Whenever technical standards are amended, the holder of such type approved telecommunications equipment must ensure that such equipment is re-assessed by the Authority to determine if due to the amended standard, the equipment requires further type approval in terms of these regulations.
- (2) If the equipment referred to in sub-regulation (1) requires further type approval, an application must be made to the Authority in this regard in terms of regulation 7 hereof before the date when the amended technical standards comes into operation and subject to regulation 13 of these regulations .

## Non-compliance, Offences and Enforcement

16. (1) It shall be the duty of every person who uses, sells, offers for sale or connects to an electronic communication network any telecommunications equipment requiring type approval in terms of these regulations to ensure that such equipment is type approved by the Authority and complies with the provisions of the Act and these regulations.
- (2) The Authority will prosecute regulatory offences and enforce the provisions of these regulations in terms of sections 114 to 127 of the Act where applicable.

## Oral Hearings

17. (1) If the Authority considers it necessary and appropriate, it will also hear oral submissions in respect of applications made in terms of these regulations.
- (2) The Authority will invite the public, at least fourteen (14) days prior to the hearing, to make oral submissions.
- (3) Unless otherwise specified by the Authority, such hearings will be open to the public.
- (4) The format and agenda of the hearing is at the discretion of the Authority, depending on the nature of the proceedings, provided however, that the hearing should be informal in nature.
- (5) All oral submissions must -
- (a) include a statement indicating the name and contact details of the person making the oral submission and the name and contact details of the person for whom the oral submission is made, if different;
- (b) be clear and concise; and
- (c) conform to any further requirements determined by the authority from time to time.

- (6) If the Authority considers it necessary, it will provide the opportunity to the Applicant to respond to oral submissions.
- (7) The Authority may request further oral or written submissions, for example, further information or clarification, which must be provided to the Authority in the time and in the manner as set out in regulation 7(8) and regulation 2 respectively in these regulations.
- (8) At the conclusion of the hearing, a concise report summarizing the oral submissions must be prepared and placed in the relevant application file by the Authority.

## Condonation

18. (1) In the event an applicant is unable to comply with any time set out in these regulations, it may request from the Authority an extension of time at least seven (7) days prior to the time set out or within such other time period agreed by the Authority upon good cause shown.
- (2) The Authority will respond to the request for condonation as soon as practicable, and may at its sole discretion either grant or deny the request, in its sole discretion, based on, among other things, the nature of the information and the reasons for non-compliance with the time set out.

## Ex parte communications

19. (1) A person may not communicate with the members of the Board, the CEO or staff members of, or consultants to the Authority, to discuss the subject matter of an application proceeding in terms of these regulations, except as provided for herein.

## Record of proceedings

- 20 . (1) All documents deemed relevant by the Authority to the application proceedings contemplated by these regulations, including information and documentation provided in terms of these regulations and decisions made by the Authority, must be maintained by the Authority separately for each application in files located at the Head offices of the Authority and, if practicable, on the Authority's website.
- (2) Except for information deemed to be confidential in terms of section 28 of the Act, any person may examine the application proceeding files either at the Head offices of the Authority during normal business hours and copies may be made on payment of a fee determined by the Authority from time to time, and, if available, on the Authority's website where copies may be downloaded free of charge.

## Reconsideration

21. (1) The Authority may, on its own motion, reconsider any decision made in terms of these regulations within ninety (90) days from the date of making decision.
- (2) Any person may submit to the Authority in writing a request to reconsider any decision made in terms of these regulations within thirty (30) days from the date that the decision has been made, and the Authority may reconsider the decision within ninety (90) days from the date that the decision has ben made.
- (3) The Authority may publish its decision on reconsideration in terms of the provisions of these Regulations.

**L.N. JACOBS**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

## ANNEXURE 1 FORM 1

## APPLICATION FORM TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT TYPE APPROVAL

In terms of Regulation 5, 6, 7 and 15 of the Regulations in respect of Telecommunications Equipment Requiring Type Approval any person or entity that intends to connect telecommunications equipment to a electronic network in Namibia for purposes of electronic communications or intends to use, sell or offer for sale telecommunications equipment within the Republic of Namibia is required to complete this application for type approval.

After completing the form, sign it and submit it to the Authority as required by Regulation 6, along with the relevant application fee or proof that the application fee has been paid to the Authority.

## 1. APPLICANT

| Name of Original Equipment Manufacturer   |
|-------------------------------------------|
| Postal Address:                           |
| Physical Address:                         |
| Contact Person:                           |
| Email Address:                            |
| Telephone No:                             |
| Facsimile No:                             |
| Website:                                  |

## 2. DETAILS OF ANY PERSON ACTING AS REPRESENTATIVE OF ORIGINAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURER

(Letter of authorization from original equipment manufacturer must be attached to application)

Name of Agent/Representative

Postal Address:

Physical Address:

Contact Person:

Email Address:

Telephone No:

Facsimile No:

Website:

## 3. APPLICATION CATEGORY

| Type Approval (proof of adherence to applicable technical standards, certificate of conformance test reports and other data must be attached- refer regulations be attached)   | 6 and 7 to   |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------|

## 4. ORIGINAL EQUIPMENT DETAILS

## 4.1 Please indicate the appropriate equipment category -

| Call Monitoring Equipment      | Call Metering Unit                                                                     |
|--------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Call Monitoring Equipment      | Call Monitoring Unit                                                                   |
| Call Monitoring Equipment      | Call Barring Unit                                                                      |
| Call Monitoring Equipment      | Call Recording Unit                                                                    |
| Call Monitoring Equipment      | Subscriber Private Meter                                                               |
| Data Equipment                 | Modem                                                                                  |
| Data Equipment                 | Router                                                                                 |
| Data Equipment                 | Switch                                                                                 |
| Data Equipment                 | Packet Assembler/Disassembler (PAD)                                                    |
| Data Equipment                 | Multiplexer (MUX)                                                                      |
| Facsimile Equipment            | All Types                                                                              |
| Network Equipment              | Microwave Transmitter                                                                  |
| Network Equipment              | Base Station Transmitter                                                               |
| Network Equipment              | Network Management System                                                              |
| Paging Equipment               | All Types                                                                              |
| Payphone Terminal Equipment    | All Types                                                                              |
| Private Exchange Equipment     | Private Manual Branch Exchange (PMBX)                                                  |
| Private Exchange Equipment     | Private Automatic Branch Exchange (PABX)                                               |
| Private Exchange Equipment     | Voice Messaging System                                                                 |
| Private Exchange Equipment     | Switchboard Equipment                                                                  |
| Private Exchange Equipment     | Media Convergence Server                                                               |
| Radio Communications Equipment | High Frequency (HF)                                                                    |
| Radio Communications Equipment | Very High Frequency (VHF)                                                              |
| Radio Communications Equipment | Ultra-High Frequency (UHF)                                                             |
| Radio Communications Equipment | Radio Alarm Transmitter                                                                |
| Radio Communications Equipment | Citizen Band Radio                                                                     |
| Radio Communications Equipment | Amateur Radio                                                                          |
| Satellite Earth Terminal       | Global Mobile Personal Communications Services (GMPCS) terminal (with ITU MoU Mark)    |
| Satellite Earth Terminal       | Global Mobile Personal Communications Services (GMPCS) terminal (without ITU MoU Mark) |
| Satellite Earth Terminal       | Very Small Aperture Terminal (VSAT)                                                    |

| Short Range Devices/ Low Power terminals   | Access Control (including door and gate openers)                       |
|--------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Short Range Devices/ Low Power terminals   | Alarms and movement detectors                                          |
| Short Range Devices/ Low Power terminals   | Closed circuit television (CCTV)                                       |
| Short Range Devices/ Low Power terminals   | Cordless audio devices including wireless microphones                  |
| Short Range Devices/ Low Power terminals   | Industrial control devices                                             |
| Short Range Devices/ Low Power terminals   | Local Area Networks                                                    |
| Short Range Devices/ Low Power terminals   | Medical Devices                                                        |
| Short Range Devices/ Low Power terminals   | Ultra-Wideband (UWB) sensors and radars (such as ground probing radar) |
| Short Range Devices/ Low Power terminals   | Remote controls                                                        |
| Short Range Devices/ Low Power terminals   | Radio frequency identification (RFID)                                  |
| Short Range Devices/ Low Power terminals   | Road Transport telematics                                              |
| Short Range Devices/ Low Power terminals   | Telemetry                                                              |
| Short Range Devices/ Low Power terminals   | Car Radios                                                             |
| Short Range Devices/ Low Power terminals   | Bluetooth devices                                                      |
| Telephone Terminal Equipment               | Ordinary telephone                                                     |
| Telephone Terminal Equipment               | Executive telephone                                                    |
| Telephone Terminal Equipment               | Cordless telephone                                                     |
| Telephone Terminal Equipment               | Answer machine integrated into the telephone                           |
| Telephone Terminal Equipment               | 2-line executive telephone                                             |
| Telephone Terminal Equipment               | Cordless executive telephone                                           |
| Telephone Terminal Equipment               | Intelligent executive telephone                                        |
| Telephone Terminal Equipment               | Answering machine unit                                                 |
| Telephone Terminal Equipment               | Global System for Mobile (GSM) phone                                   |
| Telephone Terminal Equipment               | Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) terminal                          |
| Digital Set-Top Box                        | All types                                                              |
| VOIP network equipment                     | E1 interface card                                                      |
| VOIP network equipment                     | Voice Over Internet Protocol (VOIP) gateway                            |
| VOIP network equipment                     | IP terminal                                                            |
| Wimax terminal                             | All types                                                              |

## 4.2 Equipment details

| Model:             |
|--------------------|
| Frequency Range:   |
| ITU Emission Code: |
| Modulation:        |
| Power Output:      |

## 4.3 Indicate whether the equipment is intended for use as:

| Stand-Alone                                          |
|------------------------------------------------------|
| Dual Interface equipment (RF and Telecommunications) |
| Plug-in Card                                         |
| Other (Please specify below)                         |

## 5. REQUIRED INFORMATION AND/OR DOCUMENTATION TO BE ATTACHED TO APPLICATION

| Personal identification, a certificate of incorporation or a valid trade licence in the name of the applicant                                                                                           |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 2x Identifying postcard size colour photographs of equipment submitted for type approval                                                                                                                |
| Afunctional description of the equipment, at least at block diagram level                                                                                                                               |
| Operating instructions                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| Certified copy of declaration of conformity by applicant, manufacturer or supplier of telecommunications equipment including test report (both RF and EMC), issued by an accredited test laboratory |
| Certified copies of test reports and certificate of compliance with Radio regulations issued by an accredited test laboratory                                                                           |
| Certified copy of test report for Safety Regulations issued by an accredited test laboratory                                                                                                            |
| Receipt issued by CRAN as per applicable fees                                                                                                                                                           |
| Physical sample equipment if type approval of untested equipment is requested                                                                                                                           |
| Technical, physical, operational, installation and user information                                                                                                                                     |
| Software and firmware numbers                                                                                                                                                                           |

Signed by \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ at \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_in his/her capacity as \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, duly authorised and warranting such authority and warranting that the information provided herein is true and correct, on the \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ 20 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

---

Signature

## ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OR RECEIPT BY CRAN

Name

Date

Place

Signature

ANNEXURE 2 TYPE APPROVAL FEES

| EQUIPMENTCATEGORY                | EQUIPMENT INCLUDED IN THIS CATEGORY                                                    |   FEES (N$) |
|----------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|
| Radio Transmitter Equipment      | Community Radio Transmitter                                                            |    1,000.00 |
| Call Monitoring Equipment        | Call metering unit                                                                     |      250.00 |
| Call Monitoring Equipment        | Call monitoring unit                                                                   |      250.00 |
| Call Monitoring Equipment        | Call barring unit                                                                      |      250.00 |
| Call Monitoring Equipment        | Call recording unit                                                                    |      250.00 |
| Call Monitoring Equipment        | Subscriber private meter                                                               |      250.00 |
| Data Equipment                   | Modem                                                                                  |      450.00 |
| Data Equipment                   | Router                                                                                 |      450.00 |
| Data Equipment                   | Switch                                                                                 |      450.00 |
| Data Equipment                   | Packet Assembler/Disassembler (PAD)                                                    |      450.00 |
| Data Equipment                   | Multiplexer (MUX)                                                                      |      450.00 |
| Facsimile Equipment              | All types                                                                              |      450.00 |
| Network Equipment                | Microwave transmitter                                                                  |    3,000.00 |
| Network Equipment                | Base Station transmitter                                                               |    3,000.00 |
| Network Equipment                | Network Management System                                                              |    3,000.00 |
| Paging Equipment                 | All types                                                                              |      450.00 |
| Payphone Terminal Equipment      | All types                                                                              |      450.00 |
| Private Exchange Equipment       | Private Manual Branch Exchange (PMBX)                                                  |    1,500.00 |
| Private Exchange Equipment       | Private Manual Branch Exchange (PABX)                                                  |    1,500.00 |
| Private Exchange Equipment       | Voice messaging system                                                                 |    1,500.00 |
| Private Exchange Equipment       | Switchboard equipment                                                                  |    1,500.00 |
| Private Exchange Equipment       | Media convergence server                                                               |    1,500.00 |
| Radio Communications Equipment | High Frequency (HF)                                                                    |      450.00 |
| Radio Communications Equipment | Very High Frequency (VHF)                                                              |      450.00 |
| Radio Communications Equipment | Ultra-Hugh Frequency (UHF)                                                             |      450.00 |
| Radio Communications Equipment | Radio alarm transmitter                                                                |      450.00 |
| Radio Communications Equipment | Citizen band                                                                           |      450.00 |
| Radio Communications Equipment | Amateur                                                                                |      450.00 |
| Satellite Earth Terminal         | Global Mobile Personal Communications Services (GMPCS) terminal (with ITU MoU Mark)  |      100.00 |
| Satellite Earth Terminal         | Global Mobile Personal Communications Services (GMPCS) terminal (without ITU MoU Mark) |      450.00 |
| Satellite Earth Terminal         | Very Small Aperture Terminal (VSAT)                                                    |    1,500.00 |

| Short Range Devices/Low power terminals               | Access control (including door and gate openers)                      |   250.00 |
|-------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|----------|
| Short Range Devices/Low power terminals               | Alarms and movement detectors                                         |   250.00 |
| Short Range Devices/Low power terminals               | Closed-circuit television (CCTV)                                      |   250.00 |
| Short Range Devices/Low power terminals               | Cordless audio devices, including wireless microphones              |   250.00 |
| Short Range Devices/Low power terminals               | Industrial control                                                    |   350.00 |
| Short Range Devices/Low power terminals               | Local Area Networks                                                   |   350.00 |
| Short Range Devices/Low power terminals               | Medical implants                                                      |   350.00 |
| Short Range Devices/Low power terminals               | Ultra-Wideband (UWB) Sensors &Radars (such as ground probing radar) |   250.00 |
| Short Range Devices/Low power terminals               | Remote control                                                        |   250.00 |
| Short Range Devices/Low power terminals               | Radio frequency identification (RFID)                                 |   250.00 |
| Short Range Devices/Low power terminals               | Road Transport Telematics                                             |   250.00 |
| Short Range Devices/Low power terminals               | Bluetooth Devices                                                     |   250.00 |
| Short Range Devices/Low power terminals               | Car Radios                                                            |   250.00 |
| Short Range Devices/Low power terminals               | Telemetry.                                                            |   250.00 |
| Telephone Terminal Equipment                          | Ordinary telephone                                                    |   250.00 |
| Telephone Terminal Equipment                          | Executive telephone                                                   |   250.00 |
| Telephone Terminal Equipment                          | Cordless telephone                                                    |   250.00 |
| Telephone Terminal Equipment                          | Answer machine integrated into the telephone                          |   250.00 |
| Telephone Terminal Equipment                          | 2 line Executive telephone                                            |   450.00 |
| Telephone Terminal Equipment                          | Cordless executive telephone                                          |   450.00 |
| Telephone Terminal Equipment                          | Intelligent executive telephone                                       |   450.00 |
| Telephone Terminal Equipment                          | Answering machine unit                                                |   450.00 |
| Telephone Terminal Equipment                          | Global System for Mobile (GSM) terminal                             |   450.00 |
| Telephone Terminal Equipment                          | Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) terminal                         |   450.00 |
| Digital Set-Top Box                                   | All Types                                                             |   450.00 |
| Voice Over Internet Protocol (VOIP) Network Equipment | E1 interface card                                                     | 2,500.00 |
| Voice Over Internet Protocol (VOIP) Network Equipment | VoIP gateway                                                          | 2,500.00 |
| Voice Over Internet Protocol (VOIP) Network Equipment | IP terminal                                                           | 2,500.00 |
| WiMAX terminal                                        | All types                                                             |   450.00 |

## ANNEXURE 3

## FORM 2

## RENEWAL FORM TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT TYPE APPROVAL

In terms of Regulation 10(6) of the Regulations in respect of Telecommunications Equipment Requiring Type Approval any person or entity that intends to connect telecommunications equipment to a electronic network in the Republic of Namibia for purposes of electronic communications or intends to use, sell or offer for sale telecommunications equipment within the Republic of Namibia is required to complete this renewal for type approval prior to the expiry of a type approval certificate issued by the Authority

After completing the form, sign it and submit it to the Authority as required by Regulation 6, along with the relevant application fee or proof that the application fee has been paid to the Authority.

## 1. CONTACT DETAILS OF TYPE APPROVAL CERTIFICATE HOLDER

Name of Original Equipment Manufacturer

Postal Address:

Physical Address:

Contact Person:

Email Address:

Telephone No:

Facsimile No:

Website:

## 2. TYPE APPROVAL CERTIFICATE

Type Approval Certificate Number

Date of Issuance

3. DETAILS OF ANY PERSON ACTING AS REPRESENTATIVE OF ORIGINAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURER

(Letter of authorization from original equipment manufacturer must be attached to application)

Name of Agent/Representative

Postal Address:

Physical Address:

Contact Person:

Email Address:

Telephone No:

Facsimile No:

Website:

4. REQUIRED INFORMATION AND/OR DOCUMENTATION TO BE ATTACHED TO RENEWAL FORM

Personal identification, a certificate of incorporation or a valid trade licence in the name of the type approval certificate holder

Certified copy of the type approval certificate previously issued by the Authority

Signed by \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ at \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_in his/her capacity as \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, duly authorised and warranting such authority and warranting that the information provided herein is true and correct, on the \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ 20 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

---

Signature

## ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OR RECEIPT BY CRAN

Name

Date

Place

Signature

---

No. 23

## NOTICE OF DETERMINATION OF LAPSING OF BROADCASTING SERVICE LICENCE IN TERMS OF REGULATION 12 (4) OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING LICENCE CONDITIONS FOR BROADCASTING SERVICE LICENCES

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of regulation 12 (4) of the Regulations regarding Licence Conditions for Broadcasting Service Licences as published in Government Gazette No, 5037, General Notice No. 309 dated 13 September 2012, herewith gives notice that the Broadcasting Service Licence issued in terms of section 85 of the Communications Act (No. 8 of 2009) to Kalahari Holdings (Pty) Ltd on 18 November 2011 has lapsed.

## THE FOLLOWING ARE THE REASONS FOR THE DECISION:

Kalahari Holdings (Pty) Limited (hereinafter referred to as 'Kalahari Holdings') was issued with a commercial broadcasting service licence by the former Namibia Communications Commission ('NCC'). Kalahari Holdings was transitioned to the new market structure on 18 November 2011, pursuant to the provisions of section 135(2) of the Communications Act 8 of 2009 (hereinafter referred to as the 'Communications Act'), as published in the Government Gazette No. 4839, General Notice No. 393, dated 25 November 2011.

The said licence was awarded subject to the Regulations Regarding Licence Conditions for Broadcasting Service Licences ('Broadcasting Service Licence Conditions'), as published in the Government Gazette No. 5037, General Notice No. 309, dated 13 September 2012. Kalahari Holdings did not commence with any commercial broadcasting activities as per the conditions attached to the licence.

In terms of section 87(7) of the Communications Act, a licence lapses after the expiry of such period which may be prescribed in regulation 12(4) of the Broadcasting Service Licence Conditions in the event that no broadcasts are made under that licence. The Authority is of the view that the words in regulation 12(4) are peremptory, which means that the legislature intended to cast an obligation on a licensee to comply with what is required by the section 87(7) of the Communications Act or regulation 12(4) of the Broadcasting Service Licence Conditions, and failure to comply with which, the licence would automatically lapse.

The period as contemplated in section 87(7) of the Communications Act is prescribed in the Broadcasting Service Licence Conditions Regulations, which provides as follows in regulation 12(4):

'In terms of section 87(7) of the Act, in the event licensees fail to commence broadcasting services within a period of six (6) months from the date of issue of the licence, such licence shall automatically expire at the end of the six (6) month period , without the Authority having to give notice to the licensee, unless as otherwise approved by the Authority in advance .' (Our emphasis) The Broadcasting Service Licence Conditions only came into force on 13 September 2012. At the time of awarding the licence to Kalahari Holdings (25 November 2011), there were no conditions prescribing the period as contemplated in section 87(7) of the Communications Act. This therefore means, the 6 months period within which Kalahari Holdings was supposed to commence with broadcasting services, should be calculated from 13 September 2012. The Authority is of the view that this is a fair approach, because Kalahari Holdings could not have been expected to comply with a time period that they were not aware of on date of award of licence.

As indicated above, Kalahari Holdings was issued with a broadcasting service licence on 25 November 2011. As per section 87(7) of the Communications Act, Kalahari Holdings was required to commence with commercial broadcasting activities within 6 months from date on which the licence was issued.

Please note however, that the Broadcasting Service Licence Conditions only came into force on 13 September 2012. At the time of receiving the licence, there were no conditions prescribing the period as contemplated in section 87(7) of the Communications Act. This therefore means, the 6 months period within which Kalahari Holdings was required to commence with the provision of commercial broadcasting services in terms of section 87(7) of the Communications Act, should be calculated from 13 September 2012, when the Broadcasting Service Licence Conditions came into effect.

On 11 March 2014, the Authority drafted a letter to Kalahari Holdings to inquire on the status of the operations of the commercial broadcasting service station and for Kalahari Holdings to provide the Authority with an update thereof. In the letter of 11 March 2014, the Authority also requested that Kalahari Holdings provides the Authority with its annual financial statements for the year 2012/2013 for the Authority to determine whether Kalahari Holdings has commenced with commercial broadcasting services as required by the Broadcasting Service Licence Conditions.

On 11 March 2014, Kalahari Holdings indicated to that they did not launch the broadcasting service station yet, and as a result, Kalahari Holdings is unable to provide the Authority with any financial statements regarding its operations.

On 26 March 2014, the Authority requested Kalahari Holdings to state the reasons why it did not commence with broadcasting services in terms of the licence issued and to furnish the Authority with a detailed explanation of the non-compliance with the Broadcasting Service Licence Conditions. The Authority further requested Kalahari Holdings to indicate the measures that Kalahari Holdings intends to take in this regard.

On 30 July 2014, Kalahari Holdings informed the Authority why they did not commence with commercial activities by setting out the reasons contained therein.

## CONCLUSION

In light of the above and pursuant to the provisions of of section 87(7) of the Communications Act read with regulation 12(4) of the Broadcasting Service Licence Conditions and the submissions made above, the commercial broadcasting service licence issued to Kalahari Holdings (Pty) Ltd as published in the Government Gazette No. 4839, General Notice No. 393, dated 25 November 2011 has automatically lapsed on 12 March 2013. This is due to the fact that Kalahari Holdings (Pty) Ltd has not commenced with commercial broadcasting activities within a period of six months from date of issuance of the Broadcasting Service Licence Conditions, date being 13 September 2012.

The full reasons for the decision can be obtained from the Authority.

**L.N. JACOBS**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

No. 24

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING THE SUBMISSIONS OF INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENTS AND TARIFFS

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of Section 53(10) of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009) read with regulation 8(1) of the 'Regulations Regarding the Submission of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs', in Government Gazette No. 4714, Notice No. 126, dated 18 May 2011, herewith gives notice that Telecom Namibia Ltd has filed a tariff amendment with the Authority as set out in Schedule 1 hereto.

Any person may examine copies of the tariffs submitted at the head offices of the Authority during normal business hours and copies may be made on payment of a fee determined by the Authority. Copies are also available at www.cran.na where copies may be downloaded free of charge.

The public may submit in writing to the Authority written comments within fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette .

Telecom Namibia Ltd may submit, in writing to the Authority, a response to any written comments within fourteen (14) days from the lapsing of the time to submit written submissions.

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submissions is made, if different and be clear and concise.

All written submissions and reply comments must be made either physically or electronically -

- (1) by hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (2) by post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek 9000;
- (3) by electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na; and
- (4) by facsimile to the following facsimile number: +264 61 222790.
- (5) by fax to e-mail to: 0886550852

**L.N. JACOBS**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

## SCHEDULE 1

## SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED AMENDED TARIFFS IN TERMS OF SECTION 53(10) BY TELECOM NAMIBIA LIMITED COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

The following are the proposed amended tariffs as submitted by Telecom Namibia Ltd:

| LICENSEE: Telecom Namibia Limited.                | LICENSEE: Telecom Namibia Limited.   | LICENSEE: Telecom Namibia Limited.   | LICENSEE: Telecom Namibia Limited.   |
|---------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|
| Type of Service                                   | Current Monthly Rental N$            | Proposal Monthly Rental N$           | %Increase                            |
| Residential Basic Line (Within MRA)               | 72.00                                | 79.00                                | 9.7%                                 |
| Business basic line (within MRA)                  | 82.00                                | 95.00                                | 15.9%                                |
| Residential and Business basic line (Outside MRA) | 103.00                               | 109.00                               | 5.8%                                 |
| ISDN BRA(Main Service)                            | 203.00                               | 222.00                               | 9.4%                                 |
| ISDN BRA(per additional MSN)                      | 37.00                                | 39.00                                | 5.4%                                 |
| ISDN Primary Rate Access (30B+D)                  | 2,674.00                             | 2,829.00                             | 5.8%                                 |

## NOTE:

The rationale behind the amendment is due to the fact that Telecom Namibia Limited is currently undercharging for its basic analogue and ISDN BRI line services, in comparison to other service providers in the Region. Furthermore, the proposed amended tariffs are likewise lower than the tariffs of similar service providers. In the event of incorrect billing, customers are entitled to register the dispute over the affected portion of the account by reporting through the Customer Care Centre's toll free number 1100 or the nearest Teleshop.

---

## No. 25 2015

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING THE SUBMISSIONS OF INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENTS AND TARIFFS

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of Section 53(10) of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009) read with regulation 8(1) of the 'Regulations Regarding the Submission of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs', in Government Gazette No. 4714, Notice No. 126, dated 18 May 2011, herewith gives notice that MTN Business Solutions (Namibia) (Pty) Ltd has filed a tariff with the Authority as set out in Schedule 1 hereto.

Any person may examine copies of the tariffs submitted at the head offices of the Authority during normal business hours and copies may be made on payment of a fee determined by the Authority. Copies are also available at www.cran.na where copies may be downloaded free of charge.

The public may submit in writing to the Authority written comments within fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette .

MTN Business Solutions (Namibia) (Pty) Ltd may submit, in writing to the Authority, a response to any written comments within fourteen (14) days from the lapsing of the time to submit written submissions.

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submissions is made, if different and be clear and concise.

All written submissions and reply comments must be made either physically or electronically -

- (1) by hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (2) by post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek 9000;
- (3) by electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na; and
- (4) by facsimile to the following facsimile number: +264 61 222790.
- (5) by fax to e-mail to: 0886550852.

**L.N. JACOBS**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA
## SCHEDULE 1

## SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED TARIFFS IN TERMS OF SECTION 53(10) BY MTN BUSINESS SOLUTIONS (NAMIBIA) (PTY) LTD COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

The following are the proposed tariffs as submitted by MTN Business Solutions (Namibia) (Pty) Ltd:

MTN BIZSAT VSAT Tariffs - V1

| Standard Package rates - Public IP   | Standard Package rates - Public IP   | Standard Package rates - Public IP   | Standard Package rates - Public IP   | Standard Package rates - Public IP   | Standard Package rates - Public IP   | Standard Package rates - Public IP   | Standard Package rates - Public IP   |
|--------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|
| UPLOAD SPEED                         | DOWNLOAD SPEED                     | CAPPING                              | Month-to- Month                      | 12 Months                            | 18 Months                            | 24 Months                            | 36 Months                            |
| 384k/1024k                           | 10 MBPS                              | 500MB                                | 630                                  | 590                                  | 550                                  | 510                                  | 480                                  |
| 384k/1024k                           | 10 MBPS                              | 1 GIG                                | 810                                  | 760                                  | 710                                  | 660                                  | 610                                  |
| 384k/1024k                           | 10 MBPS                              | 3 GIG                                | 1 570                                | 1 470                                | 1 370                                | 1 270                                | 1 180                                |
| 384k/1024k                           | 10 MBPS                              | 5 GIG                                | 2 160                                | 2 020                                | 1 890                                | 1 750                                | 1 620                                |
| 384k/1024k                           | 10 MBPS                              | 10 GIG                               | 3 760                                | 3 520                                | 3 290                                | 3 050                                | 2 820                                |
| 384k/1024k                           | 10 MBPS                              | 20 GIG                               | 6 780                                | 6 360                                | 5 930                                | 5 510                                | 5 090                                |
| 384k/1024k                           | 10 MBPS                              | 30 GIG                               | 10 030                               | 9 420                                | 8 670                                | 7 920                                | 7 540                                |
| 384k/1024k                           | 10 MBPS                              | 50 GIG                               | 15 600                               | 15 060                               | 13 980                               | 12 910                               | 12 360                               |
| Standard Package rates - Private IP  | Standard Package rates - Private IP  | Standard Package rates - Private IP  | Standard Package rates - Private IP  | Standard Package rates - Private IP  | Standard Package rates - Private IP  | Standard Package rates - Private IP  | Standard Package rates - Private IP  |
| UPLOAD SPEED                         | DOWNLOAD SPEED                     | CAPPING                              | Month-to- Month                      | 12 Months                            | 18 Months                            | 24 Months                            | 36 Months                            |
| 384k/1024k                           | 10 MBPS                              | 500MB                                | 470                                  | 440                                  | 410                                  | 380                                  | 360                                  |
| 384k/1024k                           | 10 MBPS                              | 1 GIG                                | 650                                  | 610                                  | 570                                  | 530                                  | 490                                  |
| 384k/1024k                           | 10 MBPS                              | 3 GIG                                | 1 410                                | 1 320                                | 1 230                                | 1 140                                | 1 060                                |
| 384k/1024k                           | 10 MBPS                              | 5 GIG                                | 2 000                                | 1 870                                | 1 750                                | 1 620                                | 1 500                                |
| 384k/1024k                           | 10 MBPS                              | 10 GIG                               | 3 600                                | 3 370                                | 3 150                                | 2 920                                | 2 700                                |
| 384k/1024k                           | 10 MBPS                              | 20 GIG                               | 6 620                                | 6 210                                | 5 790                                | 5 380                                | 4 970                                |
| 384k/1024k                           | 10 MBPS                              | 30 GIG                               | 9 870                                | 9 270                                | 8 530                                | 7 790                                | 7 420                                |
| 384k/1024k                           | 10 MBPS                              | 50 GIG                               | 15 440                               | 14 910                               | 13 840                               | 12 780                               | 12 240                               |

| Additional Charges          | Additional Charges   | Additional Charges   | Additional Charges   | Additional Charges   | Additional Charges   | Additional Charges   |
|-----------------------------|----------------------|----------------------|----------------------|----------------------|----------------------|----------------------|
| 1. Equipment rental options | Month-to- Month      | 12 Months            | 18 Months            | 24 Months            | 36 Months            |                      |
| 384k upload                 | 8 300                | 770                  | 520                  | 430                  | 390                  |                      |
| 1024k upload                | 15 330               | 1 410                | 730                  | 610                  | 550                  |                      |
| 2. Equipment purchase       | Once-off             |                      |                      |                      |                      |                      |
| 384k upload                 | N$ 8 300             |                      |                      |                      |                      |                      |
| 1024k upload                | N$ 15 330            |                      |                      |                      |                      |                      |

| 3.Top up Gigs       | 3.Top up Gigs       | 3.Top up Gigs   | Month-to- Month   | Top-up          |
|---------------------|---------------------|-----------------|-------------------|-----------------|
|                     | Intervals           | Discount        | Cost price/ GB    | Denominations |
|                     | 06h00- 18h00        | 0%              | 340               | 100             |
|                     | 18h00- 20h00        | 25%             | 260               | 300             |
|                     | 22h00- 24h00        | 50%             | 170               | 500             |
|                     | 24h00- 06:00        | 75%             | 90                | 1000            |
| 4. Reconnection fee | 4. Reconnection fee |                 | N$ 350            |                 |

## Standard Terms of Use:

* All sites will receive a default private IP. An optional public IP can also be assigned to a terminal at an additional charge (see below)
* May only purchase one base package per calendar month
* Matrix does not apply to base package
* After first month of installation - base usage allocation lapse at the end of the month (no rollover)
* A 7-day grace period with a 500MB advance is allowed at the beginning of every month to cater for administrative delays
* Allocated top-up services roll-over
* Base package usage are first applied before top-up usage are applied
* Month-to-month option subject to purchase of equipment @ cost price
* All prices above are VAT exclusive

---

No. 26

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING LICENSING PROCEDURES FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND BROADCASTING SERVICE LICENCES AND SPECTRUM USE LICENCES

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of Regulations 7 and 11 of the 'Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences and Spectrum Use Licences', in Government Gazette No. 4785, General Notice No. 272, dated 29 August 2011 (as amended), herewith gives notice of the following licensee who have submitted applications for transfer of control of licence:

**1 Subject to authorisation by**  
THE Minister in terms of section 85(3) of the Communications Act

|                                                   | The transferors sold shares in the licensee to the transferees.           |
|---------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Percentage of Stock owned by Namibian Citizens or | 20.71%                                                                    |
| Percentage of Stock owned by non-Namibian         | 79.29% 1                                                                  |
|                                                   | Picture Investment Holdings (Pty) Ltd = 20.71% Times Media Group = 79.29% |
|                                                   | One Africa Television (Pty) Ltd                                           |
|                                                   | Commercial Broadcasting Service Licence                                   |
|                                                   | OneAfrica Television (Pty) Ltd                                            |

The public may submit comments in writing to the Authority within a period of fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette. The applicant may submit written reply comments within fourteen (14) days from date of notification of the written public comments.

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submission is made, if different, and be clear and concise.

All written submissions must be made either physically or electronically -

- (1) By hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (2) By post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek 9000;
- (3) By electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na;
- (4) By facsimile to the following facsimile number: +264 61 222790; or
- (5) By fax to e-mail to: 0886550852.

**L.N. JACOBS**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

No. 27

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING LICENSING PROCEDURES FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND BROADCASTING SERVICE LICENCES AND SPECTRUM USE LICENCES

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of section 38 of the Communications Act 8 of 2009 read with regulation 11 of the Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences and Spectrum Use Licences, in Government Gazette No. 4785, Notice No. 272, dated 29 August 2011 (as amended), herewith gives notice that the Applicant referred to in the table below has submitted an application for a Class Telecommunications Service (ECS) licence to the Authority:

| Applicant;                          | Applicant's citizenship or place of incorporation;   | Percentage of Stock owned by Namibian Citizens or Namibian Companies Controlled by Namibian Citizens;   | Category of class telecommunications service licence applied for;   | Telecommunication services intended to be provided by applicant;   | Proof of Licence Application Fees Paid Up to Date Submitted;   |
|-------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------|
| Demshi Investment Holding (PTY) LTD | Namibia                                                    | 100%                                                                                                          | Class Electronic Communications Services (ECS)                        | Electronic Communications                                              | Yes                                                            |

The public may submit comments in writing to the Authority within a period of fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette .

The applicant may submit written reply comments within fourteen (14) days from date of notification of the written public comments.

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submission is made, if different and be clear and concise.

All written submissions and reply comments must be made either physically or electronically -

- (1) By hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (2) By post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek 9000;
- (3) By electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na;
- (4) By facsimile to the following facsimile number: +264 61 222790; or
- (5) By fax to e-mail to: 0886550852.

**L.N. JACOBS**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

No. 28

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING LICENSING PROCEDURES FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND BROADCASTING SERVICE LICENCES AND SPECTRUM USE LICENCES

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of sections 85 and 101 of the Communications Act 8 of 2009 read with regulations 5, 6 and 11 of the Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences and Spectrum Use Licences, as published in Government Gazette No. 4785, General Notice No. 272, dated 29 August 2011 (as amended), herewith gives notice that the Applicant referred to in the table below have submitted the following applications to the Authority:

(a) Broadcasting Service Licence Application:

| Proof of Application fees paid up to date submitted?                                                                                                    | Yes                                                |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|
| Whether applicant intends to use spectrum in the provision of broadcasting services intended to be provided;                                            | Yes, application is contained in part (b) below.   |
| Provision of signal distribution;                                                                                                                       | Own                                                |
| Category of Broadcasting service licence as contemplated in the Regulations Setting out Broadcasting and Telecommunications Service Licence categories; | Community Broadcasting Service Licence             |
| Percentage of Stock owned by Namibian Citizens or Namibian Companies Controlled by Namibian Citizens;                                                   | 100%                                               |
| Applicant's citizenship or place of incorporation;                                                                                                      | Namibian                                           |
| Applicants Name;                                                                                                                                        | The Voice of the Kingdom Ministries Incorporated 1 |

## Spectrum Use Licence Application

1 Non-profit Association incorporated under section 21 of the Companies Act 24 of 2004. 2 Non-profit Association incorporated under section 21 of the Companies Act 24 of 2004.

| Own                                                |
|----------------------------------------------------|
| Community Broadcasting Service                     |
| 500.000W                                           |
| Ondangwa                                           |
| Oshana Ondangwa                                    |
| 95.900 MHz                                         |
| 88 - 108 MHz                                       |
| 100%                                               |
| Namibia                                            |
| The Voice of the Kingdom Ministries Incorporated 2 |

The public may submit comments in writing to the Authority within a period of fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this notice in the Government Gazette .

The applicant may submit written reply comments within fourteen (14) days from date of notification of the written public comments.

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submission is made, if different and be clear and concise.

All written submissions and reply comments must be made either physically or electronically -

- (1) By hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (2) By post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek 9000;
- (3) By electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na;
- (4) By facsimile to the following facsimile number: +264 61 222790; or
- (5) By fax to e-mail to: 0886550852.

**L.N. JACOBS**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

No. 29

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING LICENSING PROCEDURES FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND BROADCASTING SERVICE LICENCES AND SPECTRUM USE LICENCES

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms sections 85 and 101 of the Communications Act 8 of 2009 read with regulations 5, 6 and 11 of the Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences and Spectrum Use Licences, as published in Government Gazette No. 4785, General Notice No. 272, dated 29 August 2011 (as amended), herewith gives notice that the Applicant referred to in the table below have submitted the following applications to the Authority:

Broadcasting Service Licence Application:

(a)

| Yes                                              |
|--------------------------------------------------|
| Yes, application is contained in part (b) below. |
| Own                                              |
| Community Broadcasting Service Licence         |
| 100%                                             |
| Namibian                                         |
| Shalom Messenger Ministries Incorporated 1     |

## (b) Spectrum Use Licence Application

1 Non-profit Association incorporated under section 21 of the Companies Act 24 of 2004. 2 Non-profit Association incorporated under section 21 of the Companies Act 24 of 2004.

| Own                                      |
|------------------------------------------|
| Community Broadcasting Service           |
| 500.000W                                 |
| Oshana Oshakati Oshakati                 |
| 106.300 MHz                              |
| 88 - 108 MHz                             |
| 100%                                     |
| 2 Namibia                                |
| Shalom Messenger Ministries Incorporated |

The public may submit comments in writing to the Authority within a period of fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this notice in the Government Gazette .

The applicant may submit written reply comments within fourteen (14) days from date of notification of the written public comments.

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submission is made, if different and be clear and concise.

All written submissions and reply comments must be made either physically or electronically -

- (1) By hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (2) By post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek 9000;
- (3) By electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na;
- (4) By facsimile to the following facsimile number: +264 61 222790; or
- (5) By fax to e-mail to: 0886550852.

**L.N. JACOBS**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

No. 30

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING LICENSING PROCEDURES FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND BROADCASTING SERVICE LICENCES AND SPECTRUM USE LICENCES

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of section 85 and 101 of the Communications Act 8 of 2009 and regulations 5, 6 and 11 of the Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences and Spectrum Use Licences, as published in Government Gazette No. 4785, General Notice No. 272, dated 29 August 2011 (as amended), herewith gives notice that the Applicant referred to in the table below have submitted the following applications to the Authority:

(a) Broadcasting Service Licence Application:

| Proof of Application fees paid up to date submitted?                                                                                                      | Yes                                                |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|
| Whether applicant intends to use spectrum in the provision of broadcasting services intended to be provided;                                          | Yes, application is contained in part (b) below. |
| Provision of signal distribution;                                                                                                                         | Own                                                |
| Category of Broadcasting service licence as contemplated in the Regulations Setting out Broadcasting and Telecommunications Service Licence categories; | Commercial Broadcasting Service Licence            |
| Percentage of Stock owned by Namibian Citizens or Namibian Companies Controlled by Namibian Citizens;                                                     | 100%                                               |
| Applicant's citizenship or place of incorporation;                                                                                                      | Namibia                                            |
| Applicants Name;                                                                                                                                          | TRUSTCO Administrative Support Services (Pty) LTD  |

(b) Spectrum Use Licence Application:

| Party providing Signal Distribution;                                                                           | Own                               | Own                               | Own                               | Own                               |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------|-----------------------------------|-----------------------------------|-----------------------------------|
| Service to be provided using frequency applied for;                                                            | Commercial Broadcasting Service | Commercial Broadcasting Service | Commercial Broadcasting Service | Commercial Broadcasting Service |
| Maximum Output power;                                                                                            | 1000.000W                         | 100.000W                          | 100.000W                          | 100.000W                          |
| Description of geographic coverage area(s) Region; District; City/Town;                                          | Oshakati                          | Mariental                         | Otjiwarongo                       | Keetman- shoop                    |
|                                                                                                                  | Oshakati                          | Mariental                         | Otji- warongo                     | Keetman- shoop                    |
|                                                                                                                  | Oshana                            | Karas                             | Otjozon- djupa                    | Karas                             |
| List of radio frequencies or groups of radio frequencies being considered for assignment by the Authority; | 105.600 MHz                       | 104.900 MHz                       | 105.900 MHz                       | 106.000 MHz                       |
| List of radio frequencies or groups of radio frequencies applied for;                                          | 88- 108 MHz                       | 88- 108 MHz                       | 88- 108 MHz                       | 88- 108 MHz                       |
| Percentage of Stock owned by Namibian Citizens or Namibian Companies controlled by Namibian Citizens;          | 100%                              |                                   |                                   |                                   |
| Applicant's citizenship or place of incorporation;                                                             | Namibia                           |                                   |                                   |                                   |
| Applicant's Name;                                                                                                | TRUSTCOAd- ministrative Sup-      | port Services (Pty) LTD           |                                   |                                   |

The public may submit comments in writing to the Authority within a period of fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette .

The applicant may submit written reply comments within fourteen (14) days from date of notification of the written public comments.

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submission is made, if different and be clear and concise.

All written submissions and reply comments must be made either physically or electronically -

- (1) By hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (2) By post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek 9000;
- (3) By electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na;
- (4) By facsimile to the following facsimile number: +264 61 222790; or
- (5) By fax to e-mail to: 0886550852.

**L.N. JACOBS**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---