

## GOVERNMENT GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA

NS4.00

WINDHOEK-15August2014

No.5535

## CONTENTS

Page

GENERALNOTICE

No.293 CommunicationsRegulatoryAuthorityof Namibia:Noticeto establishthefeasibility of theutilization ofTVwhitespacesfortelecommunicationsserviccsonasecondarybasisinthe470MHZto694MHZ spectrumband allocatedtobroadcastingservicesin theRepublicofNamibia 

## General Notice

## COMMUNICATIONSREGULATORYAUTHORITYOFNAMIBIA

No.293

STUDYTOESTABLISHTHEFEASIBILITYOFTHEUTILISATIONOFTVWHITE SPACESFORTELECOMMUNICATIONSSERVICESONASECONDARYBASISINTHE SERVICESINTHEREPUBLICOFNAMIBIA

CommunicationsAct,2009(Act.No.8of 2009)herewith publishes the study as setoutin the Schedule.

L.N.JACOBS CHAIRPERSONOFTHEBOARD COMMUNICATIONSREGULATORYAUTHORITY

## SCHEDULE

## 1. PARTIESTOTHISSTUDY

The parties to the study are -

- 11 MyDigitalBridgeFoundation Namibia (MDB),an association incorporatednotfor Gain dulyregistered in terms of the laws of the Republic of Namibia,(Registration number 21/2012/0593),with its registered office at Unit 3,Block B,Nujoma Office Park,1205 LutherStreet,Windhoek,Namibia;themain projectmanagerfor the Study;
- 1.2 CommunicationsRegulatoryAuthority ofNamibia(TheAuthority)a juristicperson establishedintermsofsection4oftheCommunicationsAct(ActNo.8of2009)with its principal office at the CommunicationsHouse,56RobertMugabeAvenue,Windhoek, Namibia;
- 1.3 TelecomNamibiaLimitedajuristicpersonestablished in termsofsection 2(1)(a)of thePost andTelecommunications CompaniesEstablishmentAct(No.17of1992),withitsprincipal place of business at No.9 Luderitz Street,Windhoek; as the back haul infrastructure provider to this study.
- 1.4 Microsoft East Africa Limited, a corporation duly registered in the terms of the Laws of the Republic of Kenya,with its registered offices at Seventh Floor,I&amp; MBank House,P.O. Box 64736Ngong Rd,Nairobi,Kenya; the supplier of the TVWS database and the supplier (to behostedinNamibia)aswell asdesignandimplementationofamonitoringandevaluation solutionfor theProject,tovalidatewhether the objectives of theProject are met;
- 1.5 Millennium Challenge Account Namibia (MCA-N),an organisation unit established within theNationalPlanningCommissionby the Government ofNamibiaon18thMarch 2009pursuant to Cabinet Decision Number5/18.03.08/004with its offices at Atlas House, Room 16,117 Sam Nujoma Drive,Windhoek,Namibia;being thefundingpartner to the project, whose funding commitment to the project will expire in September 2014; and
- 1.7 Ministry of Education (MoE) as the initial beneficiary of the study.

## 2. BASISOFCO-OPERATION

- 2.1 The mission of MDB is to aid the"bridging"of the digital divide in order to redress the social and economic imbalance in our society.As such MDB has established"The Citizen Connect Project."
- 2.2 Thepreambleof the CommunicationsAct(No8of 2009) mandatestheAuthority toregulate telecommunicationservicesandnetworks,broadcastingservices,postalservices and theuse andallocationofradiospectrum.

## 3. OBJECTSOFTHESTUDY

The objects of this Study are -

- 1.1 toconduct a study on the utilisation of TVWhite Spaces(Hereinafterreferred toas"TVWS") technologies;
- 1.2 to establish working committeesconsisting of membersfromMDB,theAuthority and all otherpartieslisted inclause1above;

- 1.3 to set upa"public"TVWS database independent from the spectrum database of the Authority for thepurpose of this study;
- 1.4 toidentifythe cost associatedwith theimplementationof TVWS technologies;
- 1.5 toidentifythetypeofbroadbandservices(such asfixed data,fixedvoice,mobilityetc)to be offered, bandwidth requirements and data speed attained by the utilisation of TVwS technologies;
- 1.6 toestablishanunderstandingof theinterfacebetweenTVwSbackhaulsolutionsand equipment installed at customer premises; and
- 1.7 togaininsight into therequirementsfor themanagementof an open access centralised TVWSspectrum database.

## 4. DURATIONOFTHESTUDY

- 1.1 The study shall commencefrom dateof publicationof thisnoticeintheGovernment Gazette.
- 1.2 Thestudyshallterminate automatically aftertheexpirationofaperiodoftwelve(12)months, fromdateofpublicationof thisnotice in theGazette,without onepartygivinganynotice to the other partywhatsoever,or otherwisein accordancewith theprovisions of this study document.

## 5. COSTSANDCHARGING

- 5.1 Theparties acknowledgethat thisstudyprovidesmutualbenefitonthebasis thatitentitles MDBtoreceive arighttotestthefeasibilityoftheutilisationofTVwhite spacesfor telecommunication services and enables the Authority to test the proposed framework for the use of TV white spaces in preparation for the World Radio Conference 2015.
- 5.2 Theutilisationof spectrumwill not attracta spectrum use licencefeefor thedurationof thestudy anditshould therefore,notbeconstrued that anysuch spectrum uselicence or telecommunicationsservicelicencehasbeendulyconsideredandawardedtoMDB.
- 5.3 Save as expressly provided in this study,each party shall bear all its own costs under this study andneither partyis entitled tolevy any charges on the other party.

## 6. TERMSANDCONDITIONSOFTHESTUDY

The study will be conducted subject to the following terms and conditions-

- 6.1 TheAuthority herewith grants MDB,for the duration of this study only,a non-exclusive, non-assignable,non-transferable,revocable and afee-freeright toutilise theUHFbandof 470MHzto690MHzsolelyforpurposesof thisstudy.
- 6.2 of equipment type approval and "weightless" standards.
- 6.3 During the study period,MDBis only authorised to utilise spectrum referred to in clause 6.1 above, and on a secondary basis.
- 6.4 Thesecondaryuse ofspectrummust notcauseinterference totheprimary users andmustalso bedesigned tooperateinthepresenceofinterferencefromotherprimary andorsecondary users. The Authority reserves the right to cancel the study by giving seven (7) days written

notice,should theprimaryusers complainaboutinterferenceandMDBfails torectify the MDBfrom theprimaryuser.

## 7. OBLIGATIONSOFMDB

TheobligationsofMDBare-

- 7.1 Tobe themain project co-ordinator of this study and liaise with all parties listed in clause 1 ofthis document,in asfaras theimplementationof thestudyis concerned;
- 7.2 theservicesthroughoutthestudyand at alltimesberesponsibleforensuringthatitsdatabase, facilities and systems are suitable for the delivery of such services;
- 7.3 Savefortheco-operationsetoutinthisstudydocument,MDBshallbesolelyresponsible forperformingitsobligationsunder thisstudy.Norequirementstoliaiseorotherwise communicatebetween the parties orbetween MDB andany third party (includingany of its agents) and no act or omission of theAuthority shall release MDBfrom havingtoperform those obligations;
- 7.4 Subject to theprovisionsofclause 6.1 above,MDBmayutilise thevacantfrequencieswithin the spectrumband 470MHzto694MHzonly;
- 7.5 MDB shall be required to submit to theAuthority lease agreements,interconnection and parties withinfourteen (14) daysprior to commencementof the studyperiod asstated in point 4.1 above.
- 7.6 Toconductpre-andpost-implementationscanningof thespectrumband(470MHzto690 MHz) specifically and limited thereto, without any exception during the period of study;
- 7.7 Subject to theprovisions of clause7.5above,MDBmust ensure that the equipment to be utilisedislimited to scan thefrequency band between470MHz to 690MHZ only.Any scanning and utilisation of spectrum outside thisbandisherewith expresslyprohibited and MDBmay be liable for a criminal offence in terms of the provisions of the Communications Act,Act No.8of 2009;
- 7.8 MDBshallberequired to submit detailedreports to the Authority on a monthlybasis regarding this study and on the progress made to conclude type approval of the TVWS equipment utilisedfor the studyby theOffice of Communications in theUnitedKingdom (OFCOM) or the European Testing Standards Institute (ETSI);
- 7.9 MDBshallprovidetheAuthoritywithamonthlywrittenreportduringthedurationstudy for thepurposes of evaluating the study andits outcomes,on orbefore the 25thofeach month.The report shall address the following issues,butnot limited thereto,and any other reasonably relevant matters in the opinion of the Authority:
- i. The costs associatedwith theimplementation of TVWhiteSpace technologies;
- ii. The typeofservices offered and thespeed atwhich theservices are actually offered toallparties;
- ii. Theinterfacesbetweenbackhaul solutionsanduser equipment;
- iv. The progress of the roll out to the sites identified in"Annexure A"hereto;
- V. Any interferences and the performance of the equipment in the aforesaid spectrum band;

- vi. The methodologies used in the study;
- vii. Thepreliminaryandfinalresultsofthestudyandrelevantrecommendationsand conclusionsregardingtheobjectsofthisstudyandtheregulationofTVWS;
- viii. Submission of anyrelevant documents,databases that arerelevantforthepurposes of thestudyand thatarecreated aspartof thisstudybytheparties;
- ix. Reporting on theexperienceofcustomersusing theservices,addressingissues of quality ofservice inlinewith theprinciplescontainedin the draft Regulations Prescribing QualityofServiceStandardsApplicabletoServiceLicensees and thereafter thefinal regulations once made,electromagneticfields andpublichealth, environmentalimpact assessmentregarding the equipment deployed andutilisation oftheservices,cybersecurityriskassociatedwith theequipmentandservices deployed any;
- X. Conclusionsregarding thecontinuation or terminationof this studybasedon the resultsof the study and
- xi. Anyothermattersincidental totheimplementationof thestudy.
7. 7.10 MDBshallberequiredtoscheduleamonthlymeetingwithallpartieslistedinclause1of this document,wherethereportreferred inclause7.8abovewill betabled anddiscussed,failing whichtheAuthoritymaycall suchmeetings.Themeetingsshall beheld atthepremisesof the Authority.
8. 7.11 MDBmustobtain andsubmit totheAuthorityanenvironmental clearancecertificate,prior to thecommencementofbuildinganewbasestationsiteshouldanewsiteberequired.
9. 7.12 MDBshall berequired to establish andhost the TVWS spectrummanagement database in Namibia,granting the Authority full-unencumbered access to the database and any other relevant records and documents. Upon completion of the study, possession of the database shallbehandedover totheAuthorityandthedatabedeletedfromMDB'sserver,within a period of thirty (30) days.
10. 7.13 MDBshallberequiredtosubmittotheAuthority,termsandconditionssubjecttowhich services will be provided to the beneficiaries at the sites listed in"Annexure A",for approval by theAuthority,upon thecommencementofthestudy,asanexplicitresolutivecondition of this study.The submissionmustcontain consumerprotectionmeasures andcomplaints handling and adjudication procedures.
11. 1.14 Inadditionto thereportintermsofclause7.8above,MDBshallberequired tosubmit a report to the Authority one (1) month prior to the completion of the study period addressing;
- i. The closure of the studyperiod;
- ii. Indicating the dismantling of equipment anddiscontinuationof TVwSservices;
- ii. Discontinuation of services pending the publication of regulations to be published in linewiththeITUregulationsforspectrumutilisation;
- iv. DismantletheprototypesiteinBrakwaterin thedistrictofWindhoek;and
- V. Ensure that all services offered during the study at all sites listed in"Annexure A" heretoarehandedovertoalicencedentityorsubstitutedbytelecommunications services already offered by suchlicensed entity after the completion of the study to ensurecontinuationoftheseservicesafterthestudy.

## 8. OBLIGATIONSOFTHEAUTHORITY

The obligations of theAuthority are-

- 8.1 TopublishthefinalnoticeintheGazettetocommencethestudyperiodafterconsideration of public commentsreceived;

- 8.2 Tocarryouttheresponsibilityofspectrumplanningandprovidinginformationonspectrum utilisedtodatebybroadcastingservicelicenseeintermsof theirspectrumuselicencesas well as any new spectrum use licenses thatmaybe awardedby the Authority during the study
- 8.3 To Provide the Regulations Setting Out the Frequency Channelling for Digital TerresstrialTelevisionaspublishedinGovernmentGazetteNo.5201,GeneralNoticeNo. 166dated29May2013listingallfrequenciesutilisedandreservedfordigitalterrestrial televisionservicesspecificallyforandlimitedtothe470MHzto694MHzspectrumbandto allowfor the preparation of an independent TVWS spectrum databasebyMDB;
- 8.4 Overseeactivitiesundertakenbythepartieslistedinclause1aboveduringthedurationof studyperiodandwillplaynooperationalroletherein;
- 8.5 Basedon thereports submitted byMDBreferred to in clause7above,theAuthoritywill make afinaldeterminationonwhethertheutilisationofTVwStechnologieswillbe allowed within the470MHz to690MHz spectrumband on a secondarybasis(where licensees arelicensedandallowedtoutilise thespectrumatafeebuthavenoprotection)oronan opportunisticbasis(wherenolicensingorfees areinvolvedandnoprotection at all exists) infuture.
- 8.6 Therecommendationreferred toin clause8.6 aboveis subject to the outcomeof the International TelecommunicationsUnion(ITU)WorldRadioConferencetobeheldin2015 andpublication ofregulationsbytheAuthorityin thisregard.

## 9. GOODFAITH

- 9.1 All activities will be carried out with transparency to all other participants and the Authority.

## 10. GENERAL

- 10.1 Anydisputebetween thepartiesconcerningthisstudyshall besettled amicablybctween the parties through consultation.
- 10.2 If thepartiesfail toreach an agreementwithin(30) days,orwithin such otherperiodas the partiesmayagree,the disputeshall bereferred toArbitration under theArbitrationAct(Act 42 of 1965).
- 10.3 TheParties shall be equally liablefor the costs of the arbitration proceedings.
- 10.4 reconsideranyorderordecisionthatit hasmadeinrespectofthisstudy,within90daysfrom dateofmakingtheorderordecision.

## 11. SPECIFICEXCLUSIONS,WARRANTYANDINDEMNITY

- 11.1 Parties to the study shall not beliablefor any act or omission on thepartof the other party (whether negligent or otherwise,including gross negligence),which causes injury,loss or damage to any third party (whether direct,indirect or consequential) and the parties hereby indemnifyeachotherinrespect thereof,duringandafterthestudyperiod agreed toherein.
- 11.2 Thisstudyshallnotbeconsidered tobeaspectrumuselicenseoratelecommunications service license issued or granted,impliedly or otherwise toMDB, directly or indirectly. MDBspecificallyindemnifiestheAuthoritywithregards to anyliability thatmayarise asa result of this study.

- 11.3 ThePartieswarrant thattheyhavethequalifications,ability,skillandexperiencetoproperly render theservices and toperform all relatedfunctions ascontained in the study.
- 11.4 Thisstudy shall notbeconsidered tobeanamendment of theNamibianNational spectrum bandplanor toallowfor theutilisationofbroadcastingspectrumfortelecommunication servicesbyotherpersons,except assetoutinthisstudydocument.

"ANNEXUREA"

| Site             | Latitude      | Longitude     | Site            | Latitude      | Longitude     |
|------------------|---------------|---------------|-----------------|---------------|---------------|
| EtsapaCS         | 17°51'31"S    | 16°31'29"E    | Oshikulufitu CS | 17°33'05"S    | 15°08'22"E    |
| likeloCS         | 17°52'43"S    | 16°2401"E     | Etayi CO        | 17°33'18.72"S | 15°31'39.68"E |
| Nanghonda CS     | 17°37'06"S    | 15°55'39"E    | Okalongo CO     | 17°26'12.94"S | 15°19'34.97"E |
| OmakondoCS       | 17°34'59"S    | 16°11'08"E    | Ongongo CO      | 17°41'53.45"S | 15°17'1.22"E  |
| Onamukulo CS     | 17°40'55"S    | 16°03'25"E    | EkwafoSs        | 1746'09"S     | 1545'58E      |
| OnanghuloCS      | 17°33'00"S    | 15°47'24"E    | Hashiyana CS    | 17°46'08"S    | 15°45'56"E    |
| OnankaliNorthCs  | 17°4619"S     | 16°13'48"E    | HashiyanaPS     | 1746'08"S     | 1545′56E      |
| OupiliCS         | 17°37'00"S    | 16°58'59"E    | OlukoloJS       | 17°55'23"S    | 15°57'38"E    |
| ShikudeleCS      | 17°34*29"S    | 15°53'49"E    | Onamutai CS     | 17°43'53"S    | 15°50'20"E    |
| Tulihongeni CS   | 17°38'32"S    | 15°39'16E     | Ondjora CS      | 17°50'58"S    | 15°43'28"E    |
| Okongo CO        | 17°34'30.67"S | 17°13'13.59"E | Euguwantale CS  | 17°59'16"S    | 15°41'33"E    |
| Ohakafiya CO     | 17°34'44.93"S | 16°41'14.40"E | OlunoCo         | 17°54'27.48"S | 15°58'18.14"E |
| Ondobe CO        | 17°31'14.12"S | 16°3'20.21"E  | Onamutai CO     | 17°43'51.92"S | 15°50'16.75"E |
| Ongha CO         | 17°38'42.21"S | 15°55'23.16"E | Ompundja CO     | 17°55'43.05"S | 15°41'38.41"E |
| Ekangolinene Cs  | 17°28'13"S    | 15°29'58"E    | OlupanduPS      | 17°34'19.992" | 15°35′40.992" |
| Ekundu CS        | 17°2513"S     | 15°2021"E     | OneeyaCS        | 17°36'33.00"S | 15°14'8.00"E  |
| Etayi CS         | 17°33'21"S    | 15°31'21"E    | Oshawapala CS   | 17°35'39.00"S | 15°49'18.98"E |
| John Shekudja CS | 17°28'03"S    | 15°1713"E     | Epoli Cs        | 17°38'6.25"S  | 15°58'40.69"E |
| Kampelo CS       | 17°52'05"S    | 15°16′31"E    | OnamahokaCS     | 17°35'19.00"S | 15°59'55.00"E |
| Oneeya CS        | 17°36'33"S    | 15°14'08"E    | UukeloCS        | 17°35′35.99"S | 16°6'29.98"E  |
| BrakwaterNorth   | 22°23'11"S    | 17°21.29"E    |                 |               |               |