

## GOVERNMENT GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA

N$8.40

WINDHOEK - 21 December 2018

No. 6798

## CONTENTS

Page

| GENERALNOTICES   | GENERALNOTICES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |   GENERALNOTICES |
|------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------|
| No. 686          | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice of appointment of inspectors in terms of Section 123 (1) of the Communications Act, 2009                                                                                                                             |                2 |
| No. 687          | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice of reconsideration in terms of Section 31 of the Communications Act, 2009                                                                                                                  |                2 |
| No. 688          | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice of Intention to amend Regulations Regarding Procedures for the Adjudication of Disputes: Communications Act, 2009                                                                                                                                        |                3 |
| No. 689          | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Proposed Amendment to the Regulations in respect of Type Approval and Technical Standards for Telecommunications Equipment                                                                                                                                                 |                8 |
| No. 690          | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations Regarding the Submission of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs                                                                                                                               |                9 |
| No. 691          | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of regulation 19(1) of the Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences and Spectrum Use Licences              |               10 |
| No. 692          | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice of intention to make Regulations Prescribing License Categories and Licensing Procedures for Postal Service Licensees: Communications Act, 2009   |               13 |
| No. 693          | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of Section 53(7) of the Communications Act, 2009 read with the Regulations Regarding the Submissions of Interconnection Agreement and Tariffs     |               13 |

---

No. 686

## NOTICE OF APPOINTMENT OF INSPECTORS IN TERMS OF SECTION 123(1) OF THE COMMUNICATIONS ACT 8 OF 2009

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of section 123(1) of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009, hereinafter referred to as the 'Communications Act'), herewith gives notice that it has resolved to revoke the appointment of Inspectors as published in Government Gazette No. 5836, General Notice No. 444 dated 15 September 2015 and herewith appoint the following positions as ex officio Inspectors of the Authority:

1. Head: Electronic Communications;
2. Chief Operations Officer;
3. Head: Universal Access and Service Projects;
4. Manager: Electronic Communications &amp; Projects;
5. Officer: Electronic Communications &amp; Projects;
6. The two Spectrum and Licensing Officers;
7. Senior Financial Analyst; and
8. Officer: Investigation.

The appointment of Inspectors is effective from 16 October 2018, notwithstanding date of publication in the Gazette.

**F. KISHI**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

## COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

No. 687

## NOTICE OF RECONSIDERATION IN TERMS OF SECTON 31 OF THE COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of section 31 of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009) read together with regulation 12(1) of the Regulations Regarding RuleMaking Procedures, as published in Government Gazette No. 4630, General Notice No. 334, dated 17 December 2010, hereby gives notice that MultiChoice Namibia (Pty) Ltd on 13 November 2018 submitted an application for reconsideration of the Broadcasting Code for Broadcasting Licensees as published in the Government Gazette No. 6750, General Notice No. 602, dated 31 October 2018.

The reasons and grounds for the application for reconsideration are contained in the application which can be inspected at the offices of the Authority.

The public may submit in writing to the Authority written comments within thirty (30) days from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette .

MultiChoice Namibia (Pty) Ltd may submit, in writing to the Authority, a response to any written comments within fourteen (14) days from the lapsing of the time to submit written submissions.

## General Notices

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submissions is made, if different and be clear and concise.

All written submissions and reply comments must be made either physically or electronically:

- (1) by hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (2) by post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek 9000;
- (3) by electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na;
- (4) by facsimile to the following facsimile number: +264 61 222790; and
- (5) by fax to e-mail to: 0886550852.

**F. KISHI**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

No. 688

## NOTICE OF INTENTION TO AMEND REGULATIONS REGARDING PROCEDURES FOR THE ADJUDICATION OF DISPUTES: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

In terms of section 129 read with section 132 of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009) and regulation 4(3) of the Regulations Regarding Rule-Making Procedures published by Government Gazette No. 334 dated 17 December 2010, the Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia hereby -

- (a) publish a notice of intention to amend the Regulations Regarding Procedures for the Adjudication of Disputes as set out in Schedule 1; and
- (b) sets out a precise statement of the reasons and purpose for the proposed amendment to regulations in Schedule 2.

Members of the public are invited to make written submissions to the Authority within forty-five (45) days from the date of publication of this notice in the manner set out below:

- (a) all written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submission and the name and contact details of the person or entity on whose behalf the written submission is to be made; and
- (b) be clear and precise with the submission.

All written submissions must be sent or delivered to the Authority at the following addresses:

- (a) if delivered by hand, to the head office of the Authority at the Communications House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek; or
- (b) if delivered by post, to the head office of the Authority at Private Bag 13309, Windhoek; or

- (c) if delivered through electronic mail to legal@cran.na; or
- (d) if delivered by facsimile at +264 61 222 790; or
- (e) if delivered by fax to email at +264 88642748.

**F. KISHI**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

## SCHEDULE 1

## AMENDMENT OF REGULATIONS REGARDING PROCEDURES FOR THE ADJUDICATION OF DISPUTES: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009 (ACT NO. 8 OF 2009)

In terms of section 129 read with section 132 of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009) the Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia amends the Regulations Regarding Procedures for the Adjudication of Disputes published in General Notice No. 468 by Government Gazette No. 6466 dated 9 November 2017.

## 1. Amendment of the purpose of the Regulations

By the substitution of the purpose with the following paragraph:

'In terms of section 129 read with sections 69 and 132 of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009), the Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia makes the regulations set out in the Schedule'.

## 2. Substitution of regulation 1 of the Regulations

Regulation 1 of the Regulations is hereby amended by the substitution of the definition of 'service provider' with the following definition:

'service provider' means a carrier, licensee or a telecommunications service provider contemplated by Chapters V, VI and VII of the Act';

By the deletion in the definition of 'request for adjudication' and substituted by the following paragraph:

'request for adjudication' means a written request by a service provider requiring the authority to make a determination -

## (f) by the deletion of paragraph (f) in the definition.

'submitting party' means a complainant, service provider who intends to refer or who referred a dispute to the Authority;

## 3. Deletion of regulation 3(1)(c)

Regulation 3(1)(c) is hereby deleted.

## 4. Substitution of regulation 4(2) of the Regulations

Regulation 4(2) of the Regulations is hereby amended by the deletion and substitution in that paragraph of the following paragraph:

'A service provider that wishes to submit a request for adjudication must do so by delivering a completed Request for Adjudication Form (Form B hereto) to the Authority'

## 5. Substitution of regulation 8(3) of the Regulations

Regulation 8(3) of the Regulations is hereby amended by the substitution of that paragraph with the following paragraph:

'(3) Service providers must annually by not later than 31 January of each financial year submit to the Authority-'

## 6. Deletion of regulation 9(b) of the Regulations

Regulation 9(b) of the Regulations is hereby deleted.

## 7. Substitution of Form C of the Regulations

Form C of the regulations is hereby substituted with the following form:

## FORM C

## Regulation 8(3)(a)

## CONSUMER COMPLAINT REPORT FORM

In terms of Regulation 8(3) of the Regulations Regarding Procedures for the Adjudication of Disputes, a service provider must maintain records of all complaints and provide an annual report to the Authority on this form.

After completion of the form in full, it must be signed and submitted to the Authority by not later than 31 January of each year.

## A. LICENSEE OR PERSON PROVIDING A SERVICE WITHOUT A LICENCE

| Name                                                                                        |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Indicate whether the person is a licensee or a person providing a service without a licence |

## B. CONTACT PERSON

| Contact Person              |
|-----------------------------|
| Physical address            |
| Postal address              |
| Telephone number(s)         |
| Facsimile number(s)         |
| Electronic mail address(es) |

## C. STATISTICS OF COMPLAINTS

| Number of complaints received                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Number of complaints resolved within 14 days from date of receipt                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| Number of complaints resolved after 14 days from date of receipt                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Number of complaints not resolved within 14 days from date of receipt                                                                                                                                                                                |
| Number of complaints not resolved after 14 days of receipt                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| Number of complaints not resolved after 14 days which were subsequently submitted to the Authority                                                                                                                                                   |
| Nature of complaints most received (e.g. billing, charges, service and product delivery, confidential information, customer service, service interruptions, dropped calls, advertisement, broadcasting content, reception or signal of broadcasting) |
| Any preventative measures taken in response to complaints                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Any other relevant information                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |

- D. COMPLAINTS SUBMITTED TO CRAN
- E. UNRESOLVED COMPLAINTS NOT SUBMITTED TO CRAN

| Complainant   | Nature of complaint   | Date received   | Resolution or status   |
|---------------|-----------------------|-----------------|------------------------|

| Complainant   | Nature of complaint   | Date received   | Resolution or status   |
|---------------|-----------------------|-----------------|------------------------|

Signed by \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ at\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ in his or her capacity as \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, duly authorized and giving warranty to the Authority that the information herein is true and correct, on the \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ 20 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Signature

## ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF RECEIPT BY CRAN

| Name      |
|-----------|
| Date      |
| Place     |
| Signature |

No. 689

## PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO THE REGULATIONS IN RESPECT OF TYPE APPROVAL AND TECHNICAL STANDARDS FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT

Pursuant to the Notice of Intention to amend the Regulations in respect of Type Approval and Technical Standards for Telecommunications Equipment as published in the Government Gazette No. 6750, General Notice No. 603 dated 31 October 2018 the Authority in terms of regulation 7 of the Regulations regarding Rule-Making Procedures published in Government Gazette No. 4630, General Notice No.334 dated 17 December 2010 herewith gives notice that it will hold a hearing regarding the proposed Code of Conduct as follows :

DATE:

30 January 2019

TIME:

14H30 - 16H00

VENUE:

TBD

The public is invited to make comments and/or oral submissions at the hearing on the proposed amendment to the Regulations in respect of Type Approval and Technical Standards for Telecommunications Equipment.

All written comments and notice of oral submissions to be made during the hearing must be submitted to the Authority on or before 25 January 2019.

## All written comments and notice of oral submission must be submitted to the Authority either physically or electronically -

1. by hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communications House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
2. by post to the head offices of the Authority namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek;
3. by electronic mail to the following address legal@cran.na;
4. by facsimile to the following facsimile number +264 61 222 790; or
5. by fax to email to: 088642748.

## SCHEDULE 2

## PRECISE STATEMENT AND PURPOSE OF THE PROPOSED AMENDMENT OF REGULATIONS REGARDING PROCEDURES FOR THE ADJUDICATION OF DISPUTES: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009 (ACT NO. 8 OF 2009)

The purpose of the amendment of the Regulations Regarding Procedures for the Adjudication of Disputes is to include broadcasting and postal services (Chapter VI and VII) in the definition of 'service provider'; to set a date on which licensees must submit the annual Consumer Complaint Reports; and to provide for the nature of complaints which may be received by the broadcasting and postal service licensees.

---

## Oral submissions must -

1. include a statement of the name and contact details of the person making the oral submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the oral submission is made, if different;
2. be clear and concise.

**F. KISHI**  
CHAIRPERSON  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

No. 690

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING THE SUBMISSIONS OF INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENTS AND TARIFFS

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of Section 53(10) of the Communications Act (Act No. 8 of 2009) read with regulation 8(1) of the Regulations Regarding the Submission of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs, published in Government Gazette No. 4714, General Notice No. 126, dated 18 May 2011, hereby gives notice that MTN Business Solutions ( Pty) Ltd has filed a tariff with the Authority as set out in Schedule 1 .

Any person may examine copies of the tariffs at the head offices of the Authority during business hours and copies may be made on payment of a fee determined by the Authority. Copies are also available at www.cran.na where copies may be downloaded free of charge.

The public may submit in writing to the Authority written comments within fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette .

MTN Business Solutions ( Pty) Ltd may submit, in writing to the Authority, a response to any written comments within fourteen (14) days from the lapsing of the time to submit written submissions.

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submissions is made, if different and be clear and concise.

All written submissions and reply comments must be made either physically or electronically -

- (1) by hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (2) by post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek 9000;
- (3) by electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na; and
- (4) by facsimile to the following facsimile number: +264 61 222790.
- (5) by fax to e-mail to: 0886550852.

**F. K. MBANDEKA**  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

## SCHEDULE 1

## SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED NAWA LTE CONNECT TARIFFS BY MTN BUSINESS SOLUTIONS (PTY) LTD, COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

| Capacity                     |   12 Months Contract (N$) |   24 Months Contract (N$) |   36 Months Contract (N$) |
|------------------------------|---------------------------|---------------------------|---------------------------|
| 1MB (Upload 1MB), Unlimited  |                       266 |                       256 |                       245 |
| 2MB (Upload 1MB), Unlimited  |                       349 |                       330 |                       311 |
| 4 MB(Upload 2MB), Unlimited  |                       499 |                       471 |                       444 |
| 5 MB(Upload 2MB), Unlimited  |                       549 |                       519 |                       489 |
| 10 MB(Upload 2MB), Unlimited |                       999 |                       943 |                       890 |

---

No. 691

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF REGULATION 19(1) OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING LICENSING PROCEDURES FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND BROADCASTING SERVICE LICENCES AND SPECTRUM USE LICENCES

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms Regulation 19(1) of the Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences and Spectrum Use Licences, published in Government Gazette No. 4785, Notice No. 272, dated 29 August 2011 (as amended), hereby gives notice of the following decisions:

## 1. Applications to extend period of commencement of telecommunications services

- (a) The Authority resolved to grant Loc8 Mobile CC an extension of twelve (12) months, from the date of this Notice, to commence providing commercial telecommunications services in respect of its Class Comprehensive Telecommunications Service Licence (ECS &amp; ECNS).
- (b) The Authority resolved to grant Namibia TV &amp; DVD Productions CC an extension of twelve (12) months, from the date of this Notice, to commence providing broadcasting services in respect of its Broadcasting Service License.

## 2. Applications for Spectrum Licences

- (a) The Authority resolved, with effect from date of this Notice, to award a spectrum licence to MTN Business Solutions Namibia (Pty) Ltd for the provision of fixed wireless microwave network:
- (i) Channel 1 Tx/RX: 27576.5/28584.5 MHz (centre frequency) with a bandwidth of 56 MHz;
- (ii) Channel 2 Tx/RX: 27632.5/28640.5 MHz (centre frequency) with a bandwidth of 56 MHz;
- (iii) Channel 1 Tx/RX: 37086.0/38346.0 MHz (centre frequency) with a bandwidth of 56 MHz;

- (iv) Channel 2 Tx/RX: 37142.0/38402.0 MHz (centre frequency) with a bandwidth of 56 MHz; and
- (v) Channel 3 Tx/RX: 37198.0/38458.0 MHz (centre frequency) with a bandwidth of 56 MHz.
- (b) The Authority resolved, with effect from date of this Notice, to award a spectrum licence to Mwireless (Pty) Ltd for the provision of fixed satellite services:
- (i) 29507.5 MHz (centre frequency) (Uplink) with bandwidth of 5 MHz; and
- (ii) 19707.5 MHz (centre frequency) (Downlink) with bandwidth of 5 MHz.

## 3. Application for Class Telecommunications Service Licence (Non-Profit ECNS)

- (i) The Authority resolved to decline the award of a Class Telecommunications Service Licence (Non-Profit ECNS) to Academia Neighbourhood Watch , and to direct Academia Neighbourhood Watch to cease the operation of surveillance cameras with immediate effect.
- (ii) The Authority resolved to award a Class Telecommunications Service Licence (Non-Profit ECNS) to the Internet Exchange Association of Namibia . The licence is awarded subject to the licence conditions as set out in the Regulations Setting out Licence Conditions for Telecommunications Service Licenses, and the IXP Association of Namibia shall provide interconnection to the SADC regional internet exchange points located in Zimbabwe and South Africa within twelve (12) months from the date of this Notice.

## 4. Lapse of a Community Broadcasting Service License and Spectrum Use License

The Authority noted that the community broadcasting licence awarded to Gospel Mission Ministries expired on 18 April 2018. Further, the spectrum licence for 97.1 MHz awarded to Gospel Mission Ministries in the geographical area of Rehoboth also lapsed. Gospel Mission Ministries is directed to cease providing broadcasting services with immediate effect, and to return to the Authority the license certificates issued in respect of the broadcasting service licence and spectrum licence.

## 5. Modification of Spectrum Use Licence

- (a) The Authority resolved, with effect from the date of this Notice, to modify the spectrum use licence awarded to West Coast FM from 850.000 MHz to 445.200 MHz for the implementation of a fixed wireless link between the broadcasting studio and transmitter within the geographical area of Swakopmund.
- (b) The Authority resolved to retract its decision of 27 March 2018 as published in Government Gazette No. 6589, General Notice No. 173, dated 08 May 2018 on the modification of Mobile Telecommunications Limited (MTC)'s spectrum use licence and herewith modifies the spectrum use licences awarded to MTC as indicated below-
- (i) 1710.200 -1725.200 MHz paired with 1805.200 -1820.200 MHz to be modified to 1710.000 -1725.000 MHz paired with 1805.000 -1820.000 MHz; and

- (ii) 1725.200 -1745.200 MHz paired with 1820.200 - 1840.200 MHz to be modified to 1725.000 - 1745.000 MHz paired with 1820.000 - 1840.000 MHz.

## 6. Application for Reconsideration

The Authority resolved to decline the request for reconsideration submitted by Mobile Telecommunications Limited, and confirmed its decision in respect of the amendment of the spectrum licence awarded to Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd, as published on 25 July 2018.

## 7. Application for a Commercial Broadcasting Service Licence

The Authority resolved to award a Commercial Broadcasting Service Licence to Mr. John Walenga for the provision of broadcasting services within the boundaries of the Republic of Namibia or any part thereof, and to award Spectrum Licences to Mr John Walenga as detailed in the Table 1 below. The Spectrum Licenses are awarded subject to the relevant provisions of the Communications Act, 2009, and the Regulations Regarding License Conditions for Spectrum Use Licensee as published in Government Gazette No. 5354, General Notice No. 469, dated 2 December 2013. Notwithstanding the provisions of regulations 6(4) and (5) of the Regulations Regarding License Conditions for Spectrum Use Licensee, the Spectrum License shall lapse after twelve (12) months if the licensee fail to commence providing broadcasting services in respect of those Spectrum Licenses.

Table 1

| List of radio Frequencies or group of   | Description of geographic coverage areas   | Description of geographic coverage areas   | Description of geographic coverage areas   |                      |
|-----------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|----------------------|
| frequencies assigned                    | Region                                     | District                                   | Site Location                              | Maximum Output power |
| 105.9 MHz                               | Otjozondjupa                               | Grootfontein                               | Signaalberg                                | 2000W                |
| 107.2 MHz                               | Omusati                                    | Ruacana                                    | Ruacana Powercom Tower                     | 100W                 |
| 100.1 MHz                               | Ohangwena                                  | Eenhana                                    | Eenhana Powercom Tower                     | 500W                 |
| 107.3 MHz                               | Karas                                      | Keetmanshoop                               | Keetmanshoop Powercom Tower                | 100W                 |
| 91.2 MHz                                | Karas                                      | Luderitz                                   | Luderitz NBC Tower                         | 100W                 |
| 90.5 MHz                                | Oshikoto                                   | Omuthiya                                   | Omuthiya Powercom Tower                    | 100W                 |
| 101.2 MHz                               | Hardap                                     | Mariental                                  | Mariental Powercom Tower                   | 100W                 |
| 104.0 MHz                               | Otjozondjupa                               | Okahandja                                  | Okahandja Powercom Tower                   | 20W                  |
| 93.1 MHz                                | Caprivi                                    | Katima Mulilo                              | Katima Mulilo NBC Tower                    | 1000W                |
| 107.7 MHz                               | Karas                                      | Oranjemund                                 | Oranjemund NBC Tower                       | 100W                 |
| 93.6 MHz                                | Omusati                                    | Outapi                                     | Outapi Powercom Tower                      | 100W                 |
| 106.3 MHz                               | Kavango                                    | Rundu                                      | Arendsness NBC Tower                       | 1000W                |
| 105.9 MHz                               | Otjozondjupa                               | Otjiwarongo                                | Klein Waterberg NBC Tower                  | 2000W                |
| 96.8 MHz                                | Oshana                                     | Oshakati                                   | Oshakati NBC Tower                         | 2000W                |
| 88.3 MHz                                | Erongo                                     | Swakopmund                                 | Rossing Mountain NBC Tower                 | 2000W                |
| 105.8 MHz                               | Hardap                                     | Rehoboth                                   | Rehoboth Powercom Tower                    | 100W                 |

The full reasons for the decisions in this notice can be requested from the Authority. Further, in terms of section 31 of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No.8 of 2009), the Authority may, on its own motion or on a petition filed by an aggrieved party to any proceedings, reconsider any order or decision that it has made, within 90 days from the date of making that decision or issuing that order.

**F. KISHI**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD DIRECTORS  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

No. 692

## NOTICE OF INTENTION TO MAKE REGULATIONS PRESCRIBING LICENSE CATEGORIES AND LICENSING PROCEDURES FOR POSTAL SERVICE LICENSEES: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia (hereafter 'the Authority') in terms of Regulation 4(3) of the Regulations regarding Rule-Making Procedures published as General Notice No. 334 of 17 December 2010 (hereafter 'the Regulations regarding Rule-Making Procedures') published a Notice of Intention to make Regulations Prescribing License Categories and Licensing Procedures for Postal Service Licensees in Government Gazette No. 6798, General Notice No. 692 dated 21 December 2018.

The said notice also gave notice of a public hearing to take place on 30 January 2018. Kindly note that the date of 30 January 2018 is erroneous and in terms of section 7 of the Regulations Regarding Rule Making Procedure, the Authority herewith gives notice of the correct date of the hearing as follows:

DATE:

30 January 2019

TIME:

09H00 - 11H00

VENUE:

TBA

The rest of the details on the notice are correct and remain unaltered by this notice.

**F. KISHI**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

No. 693

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF SECTION 53(7) OF THE COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009 READ WITH THE REGULATIONS REGARDING THE SUBMISSIONS OF INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENTS AND TARIFFS

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms section 53(1) and (7) of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009) read with regulation 8 of the 'Regulations Regarding the Submission of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs', in Government Gazette No. 4714, General Notice No. 126, dated 18 May 2011, herewith gives notice that it has approved:

1. International Voice tariffs as submitted by MTN Business (Namibia) (Pty) Ltd , which came into force and effect on 12 December 2018, notwithstanding date of publication of the notice in the Gazette ; and
2. The Pre-paid and Postpaid International SMS tariffs as submitted by Mobile Telecommunications Limited , which will came into force and effect on 13 December 2018, notwithstanding date of publication of the notice in the Gazette .

3. The proposed tariffs of Data Links and Express Routes and the amendment of Speedlink Lite packages as submitted by Telecom Namibia Limited , which came into force and effect on 12 December 2018, notwithstanding date of publication of the notice in the Gazette .
4. The proposed amendment of Aweh O'yeah tariffs as submitted by Mobile Telecommunications Limited , which will come into force and effect on 5 February 2019, notwithstanding date of publication of the notice in the Gazette .

Please note that the full tariff submission and reasons for approval can be obtained from the Authority.

**F. KISHI**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD DIRECTORS  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---