

## GOVERNMENT GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA

N$7.20

WINDHOEK - 26 March 2019

No. 6863

## CONTENTS

Page

| GENERALNOTICES   | GENERALNOTICES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |   GENERALNOTICES |
|------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------|
| No. 61           | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences and Spectrum Use Licences                                                                                      |                2 |
| No. 62           | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences and Spectrum Use Licences                                                                                      |                4 |
| No. 63           | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Reasons for the amendment of the Regulations Prescribing the National Numbering Plan for use in the provision of Telecommunications Services in the Republic of Namibia, Numbering Licence Fee and Procedures for Number Licences: Communications Act, 2009   |                5 |
| No. 64           | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of Section 53 (7) of the Communications Act, read with the Regulations Regarding the Submissions of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs                                                                                          |                7 |
| No. 65           | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations Regarding the Submissions of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |                8 |
| No. 66           | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Withdrawal of Part 4 of Government Notice No. 30 published under Government Gazette No. 6846 dated 22 February 2019: Notice in terms of the Regulations regarding licensing procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences and spectrum use Licences - City of Windhoek                          |                9 |
| No. 67           | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences and Spectrum Use Licences                                                                                      |                9 |
| No. 68           | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations Regarding the Submissions of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |               11 |

---

No. 61

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING LICENSING PROCEDURES FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND BROADCASTING SERVICE LICENCES AND SPECTRUM USE LICENCES

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of regulation 11 of the Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences and Spectrum Use Licences, as published in Government Gazette No. 4785, General Notice No. 272, dated 29 August 2011 (as amended), hereby gives notice that:

## General Notices

## COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

1. Hype Radio CC have submitted an application for a Spectrum Use Licence (Studio Link) as set out in the table below-

|                                    | Own               |
|------------------------------------|-------------------|
|                                    | Fixed             |
|                                    | 15W               |
| Description of geographic coverage | Ongwediva         |
| Description of geographic coverage | Ongwediva         |
| Description of geographic coverage | Oshana            |
| List of radio                      | 446.600 MHz       |
|                                    | 440 MHz - 470 MHz |
| Percentage of Stock owned          | 100%              |
|                                    | Namibia           |
|                                    | Hype Radio CC     |

2. Media for Christ has submitted an application for a Spectrum Use Licences as set out below-

| Own                             |
|---------------------------------|
| Community Broadcasting Services |
| 1000W                           |
| Bethanie Bethanie (NBC Tower)   |
| Karas                           |
| 107.3 MHz                       |
| 88 MHz - 108 MHz                |
| 100%                            |
| Namibia                         |
| Media for Christ                |

3. Hit Radio Namibia CC has submitted an application for Transfer of Licences and Transfer of Control of Licences as set out below-

| Licensee;            | Type of license;                                                                                                                                                                        | Transferor;      | Transferee;                                     | Percentage of Stock being transferred;   | Reasons for the proposed transfer;                                                |
|----------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------|-------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Hit Radio Namibia CC | Commercial Broadcasting Service Licence All Spectrum use licenses issued to the licensee in terms of section 101 of the Communications Act as published in various Government Gazettes. | Wilfried Haehner | Hartwig Rothkegel (51%) Jessica Rothkegel (49%) | 51%                                      | The transferee will inject funding to ensure operational and financial stability. |

The public may submit comments in in writing to the Authority within a period of fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette. The applicants may submit written reply comments within fourteen (14) days from date of notification of the written public comments.

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submission is made, if different, and be clear and concise.

All written submissions must be made either physically or electronically -

- (1) by hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (2) by post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek 9000;
- (3) by electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na
- (4) by facsimile to the following facsimile number: +264 61 222790; or
- (5) by fax to e-mail to: 0886550852.

**F. K. MBANDEKA**  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY

---

No. 62

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING LICENSING PROCEDURES FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND BROADCASTING SERVICE LICENCES AND SPECTRUM USE LICENCES

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of regulation 11 of the Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences and Spectrum Use Licences, as published in Government Gazette No. 4785, General Notice No. 272, dated 29 August 2011 (as amended), hereby gives notice that Satelio Television Namibia (Pty) Ltd has submitted an application for Transfer of Licences and Transfer of Control of Licences as set out below- The public may submit comments in in writing to the Authority within a period of fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette. The applicants may submit written reply comments within fourteen (14) days from date of notification of the written public comments.

| Licensee                             | Type of license                         | Transferor            | Transferee               | Percentage of Stock being transferred   | Reasons for the proposed transfer;                    |
|--------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|-----------------------|--------------------------|-----------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
| Satelio Television Namibia (Pty) Ltd | Commercial Broadcasting Service Licence | Wilfried Hahner (35%) | Reinhold Rothkegel (35%) | (35%)                                   | Wilfried Hahner sold his shares to Reinhold Rothkegel |

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submission is made, if different, and be clear and concise.

All written submissions must be made either physically or electronically -

- (1) by hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (2) by post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek 9000;
- (3) by electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na;
- (4) by facsimile to the following facsimile number: +264 61 222790; or
- (5) by fax to e-mail to: 0886550852.

**F. K. MBANDEKA**  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY

---

No. 63

REASONS FOR THE AMENDMENT OF THE REGULATIONS PRESCRIBING THE NATIONAL NUMBERING PLAN FOR USE IN THE PROVISION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES IN THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA, NUMBERING LICENCE FEE AND PROCEDURES FOR NUMBER LICENCES: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia in terms of the Regulations Regarding RuleMaking Procedures published under Government Gazette No. 4630, General Notice No. 334, dated 17 December 2010, hereby publish the reasons for the Amendment of the Regulations Prescribing the National Numbering Plan for use in the provision of Telecommunications Services in the Republic of Namibia, Numbering Licence Fee and Procedures for Number Licenses ( Number Portability ) published under Government Gazette No. 6692, General Notice No. 500, dated 30 August 2018 set out in the Schedule.

The Authority in terms of regulation 7 of the Regulations Regarding Rule-Making Procedures further gives notice herewith that it will hold a public hearing regarding the above reasons:

DATE:

29 April 2019

TIME:

10H00 - 12H00

VENUE:

TBA

Members of the public are invited to make oral submissions at the aforesaid public hearing subject to the following:

1. Any person desirous to make oral submissions at the aforesaid public hearing must deliver written notice thereof to the Authority not later than 5 days before the date of the hearing. Such written notice must be accompanied by concise statement setting out the basis and rationale of the oral submissions.
2. Oral submissions made at the aforesaid public hearing must -
- (a) Include a statement of the name and contact details of the person making the oral submissions and the name and contact details of the person of entity on whose behalf the oral submissions are made, if different;
- (b) Be clear and concise.
3. The aforesaid notice of oral submissions and concise statement must be delivered to the Authority either physically or electronically as follows:
- (a) By hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communications House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (b) By post to the head offices of the Authority namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek;
- (c) By electronic mail to the following address legal@cran.na;
- (d) By facsimile to the following facsimile number +264 61 222 790; or
- (e) By fax to email to: 088642748.

Members of the public are further invited to make written submissions to the Authority no later than 30 days from the date of publication of this notice of reasons, in the manner set out below for making written submissions.

Reply comments to written submissions may be submitted to the Authority.

- (a) no later than 15 days after the time for the making of written submissions has lapsed; or
- (b) if the opportunity for the submission of reply comments is published in a subsequent Gazette, after the lapse of 14 days from the date of such publication.

All written submissions must-

- (a) contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person or entity on whose behalf the written submissions are made, if different; and
- (b) be clear and concise.

All written submissions must be delivered to the Authority in the manner provided above for the delivery of notices of oral submissions.

**F. KISHI**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

## SCHEDULE

## REASONS FOR THE AMENDMENT OF THE REGULATIONS PRESCRIBING THE NATIONAL NUMBERING PLAN FOR USE IN THE PROVISION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES IN THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA, NUMBERING LICENCE FEE AND PROCEDURES FOR NUMBER LICENCES

Section 81(3) of the Communications Act, 2009, provides that the 'numbering plan must require mobile number portability by all technology and service neutral licensees within two years from the date of commencement of this Act'.

Section 81(3) provision directs it to implement the numbering plan with respect to 'mobile number portability' within a specified period of time and excludes the implementation of 'fixed number portability.'

It is the Authority's position that in cases of statutory interpretation, the first rule is that the provisions should be given their ordinary and grammatical interpretation. The Authority has therefore interpreted section 81(3) to exclude fixed number portability as it was not directed to do so.

---

No. 64

NOTICE IN TERMS OF SECTION 53(7) OF THE COMMUNICATIONS ACT,2009 READ WITH THE REGULATIONS REGARDING THE SUBMISSIONS OF INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENTS AND TARIFFS

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms section 53(1) and (7) of the Communications Act read with regulation 8 of the 'Regulations Regarding the Submission of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs', in Government Gazette No. 4714, General Notice No. 126, dated 18 May 2011, herewith gives notice that it has approved:

1. VoIP Rates Amendment, Wimax &amp; Fiber, LTE Pre-Paid and Top-ups for these packages as submitted by Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd, which came into force and effect on 1 October 2018 , notwithstanding the date of publication of the notice in the Gazette ; and
2. Jola Extreem as submitted by MWireless (Pty) Ltd t/a Africa Online, which came into force and effect on 1 October 2018 , notwithstanding the date of publication of the notice in the Gazette ; and
3. Fixed Wireless packages as submitted by Oblixx Communications Networks cc, which came into force and effect on 1 October 2018 , notwithstanding the date of publication of the notice in the Gazette ; and
4. Pre-paid and Post-Paid Extra Data as submitted by Mobile Telecommunications Limited, which came into force and effect on 1 October 2018 , notwithstanding the date of publication of the notice in the Gazette .

5. Speed-link Prepaid as submitted by Telecom Namibia , which came into force and effect on 24 October 2018 , notwithstanding the date of publication of the notice in the Gazette .

Please note that the full tariff submission and reasons for approval can be obtained from the Authority.

**F KISHI**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

## No. 65 2019

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING THE SUBMISSIONS OF INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENTS AND TARIFFS

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of Section 53(10) of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009) read with regulation 8(1) of the Regulations Regarding the Submission of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs, published in Government Gazette No. 4714, General Notice No. 126, dated 18 May 2011, herewith gives notice that Witel Service Provider (Pty) Ltd has filed tariffs with the Authority as set out in Schedule 1 .

Any person may examine copies of the tariffs submitted at the head offices of the Authority during normal business hours and copies may be made on payment of a fee determined by the Authority. Copies are also available at www.cran.na where copies may be downloaded free of charge.

The public may submit in writing to the Authority written comments within fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette .

Witel Service Provider (Pty) Ltd may submit, in writing to the Authority, a response to any written comments within fourteen (14) days from the lapsing of the time to submit written submissions.

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submissions is made, if different and be clear and concise.

All written submissions and reply comments must be made either physically or electronically -

- (1) by hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (2) by post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek 9000;
- (3) by electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na; and
- (4) by facsimile to the following facsimile number: +264 61 222790.
- (5) by fax to e-mail to: 0886550852

**F. MBANDEKA**  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY

No. 66

WITHDRAWAL OF PART 4 OF GOVERNMENT NOTICE NO. 30 PUBLISHED UNDER GOVERNMENT GAZETTE NO. 6846 DATED 22 FEBRUARY 2019: NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING LICENSING PROCEDURES FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND BROADCASTING SERVICE LICENCES AND SPECTRUM USE LICENCES - CITY OF WINDHOEK

Part 4 of Government Notice No. 30 that was published on 22 February 2019, under Government Gazette No. 6846 is withdrawn.

**F. K. MBANDEKA**  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

---

No. 67

NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING LICENSING PROCEDURES FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND BROADCASTING SERVICE LICENCES AND SPECTRUM USE LICENCES

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of regulations 11(1) of the Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences and Spectrum Use Licences, in Government Gazette No. 4785, General Notice No. 272,

## SCHEDULE 1

## SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED TARIFFS BY WITEL SERVICE PROVIDER (PTY) LTD COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

The following are the proposed tariffs as submitted by Witel Service Provider Limited:

| CODE   | UP/DOWN      | 36 Months    | 24 Months    | 12 Months    |
|--------|--------------|--------------|--------------|--------------|
| HINT1  | 1Mbps/1Mbps  | NAD 435.00   | NAD 456.75   | NAD 478.50   |
| HINT2  | 1Mbps/2Mbps  | NAD 565.00   | NAD 593.25   | NAD 621.50   |
| HINT5  | 1Mbps/5Mbps  | NAD 965.00   | NAD 1,013.25 | NAD 1,061.50 |
| HINT8  | 2Mbps/8Mbps  | NAD 1,470.00 | NAD 1,543.50 | NAD 1,617.00 |
| HINT10 | 2Mbps/10Mbps | NAD 1,928.00 | NAD 2,024.40 | NAD 2,120.80 |
| HINT15 | 5Mbps/15Mbps | NAD 2,558.00 | NAD 2,685.90 | NAD 2,813.80 |
| HINT20 | 5Mbps/20Mbps | NAD 3,289.00 | NAD 3,453.45 | NAD 3,617.90 |

- Installation cost is once off at N$1800.00 per installation
- All pricing exclude VAT.
- Pensioner contracts may qualify for a 10% discount on the HINT1 and HINT2 packages.

Please note that the full tariff submission including the terms and conditions and the remedies available to the consumers can be obtained from the Authority.

---

dated 29 August 2011 (as amended), hereby gives notice that the City of Windhoek submitted the following application to the Authority:

| Applicant        | Applicant's place of incorporation                                     | Percentage of Stock owned by Namibian Citizens or Namibian citizens or Namibian Companies controlled by Namibian Citizens   | Category of service licence applied for   | Services intended to be provided   | Description of geographic coverage areas   | Application Fees paid?   |
|------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|--------------------------|
| City of Windhoek | Established in terms of the Local Authorities Act (Act No. 23 of 1992) | 100%                                                                                                                        | Class Network Facilities Service License  | Network Facilities                 | Windhoek, Khomas Region, Namibia           | Yes                      |

The public may submit comments in writing to the Authority within a period of fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette.

The applicant may submit written reply comments within fourteen (14) days from the due date of the written public comments.

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submission is made, fi different and be clear and concise.

All written submissions and reply comments must be made either physically or electronically -

- (1) by hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (2) by post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek, 9000;
- (3) by electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na;
- (4) by facsimile to the following facsimile number: +264 61 222790; or
- (5) by fax to e-mail to: 088642748.

**F. K. MBANDEKA**  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

No. 68

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING THE SUBMISSIONS OF INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENTS AND TARIFFS

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of Section 53(10) of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009) read with regulation 8(1) of the 'Regulations Regarding the Submission of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs', in Government Gazette No. 4714, General Notice No. 126, dated 18 May 2011, herewith gives notice that Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd has filed tariffs with the Authority as set out in Schedule 1.

Any person may examine copies of the tariffs submitted at the head offices of the Authority during normal business hours and copies may be made on payment of a fee determined by the Authority. Copies are also available at www.cran.na where copies may be downloaded free of charge.

The public may submit in writing to the Authority written comments within fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette .

Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd may submit, in writing to the Authority, a response to any written comments within fourteen (14) days from the lapsing of the time to submit written submissions.

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submissions is made, if different and be clear and concise.

All written submissions and reply comments must be made either physically or electronically -

- (1) by hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (2) by post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek 9000;
- (3) by electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na; and
- (4) by facsimile to the following facsimile number: +264 61 222790.
- (5) by fax to e-mail to: 0886550852

**F. K. MBANDEKA**  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

## SCHEDULE 1

## SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED TARIFFS BY PARATUS TELECOMMUNICATIONS (PTY) LTD COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

The following are the proposed tariffs as submitted by Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd:

LTE

| Package Name   |   Current Subscription fee (Vat Excl) | Discount   |   Subscription fee with Pensioner Discount (Vat Excl) |
|----------------|---------------------------------------|------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
| Lite           |                                   345 | 15%        |                                                293.25 |
| Pulse          |                                   440 | 15%        |                                                374.00 |
| Flix           |                                   485 | 15%        |                                                412.25 |
| Deluxe         |                                   575 | 15%        |                                                488.75 |
| Premier        |                                   775 | 15%        |                                                658.75 |
| Ultimate       |                                   975 | 15%        |                                                828.75 |

## WIMAX/TD-LTE

| Package Name    |   Current Subscription fee (Vat Excl) | Discount   |   Subscription fee with Pensioner Discount (Vat Excl) |
|-----------------|---------------------------------------|------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
| XTREME 30       |                                   425 | 15%        |                                                361.25 |
| XTREME 50       |                                   585 | 15%        |                                                497.25 |
| XTREME UNCAPPED |                                  1585 | 15%        |                                               1347.25 |

## GPON

| Package Name   |   Current Subscription fee (Vat Excl) | Discount   |   Subscription fee with Pensioner Discount (Vat Excl) |
|----------------|---------------------------------------|------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
| Lite           |                                   620 | 15%        |                                                527.00 |
| Pulse          |                                  1020 | 15%        |                                                867.00 |
| Flix           |                                  1340 | 15%        |                                               1139.00 |
| Deluxe         |                                  2150 | 15%        |                                               1827.50 |
| Premier        |                                   785 | 15%        |                                                667.25 |
| Ultimate       |                                  3335 | 15%        |                                               2834.75 |
| Ultimate       |                                  6290 | 15%        |                                               5346.50 |

Please note that the full tariff submission including the terms and conditions and the remedies available to the consumers can be obtained from the Authority.

---