
N$8.40

## GOVERNMENT GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA

WINDHOEK - 1 December 2016

No. 6188

| Column 1 | Column 2 | Column 3 |
|-------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------|
| PROCLAMATION      | PROCLAMATION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |        |
| No. 10            | Recognition of designation of chief of traditional community:Traditional Authorities Act, 2000                                                                                                                                                     |      2 |
| GOVERNMENTNOTICES | GOVERNMENTNOTICES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |        |
| No. 285           | Commencement of Part 4 of Chapter Vof Communications Act, 2009                                                                                                                                             |      3 |
| No. 286           | Commencement of Communal Land Reform Amendment Act, 2013                                                                                                                                               |      3 |
| No. 287           | Determination of categories of quota from total allowable catch in respect of rock lobster: Marine Resources Act, 2000      |      3 |
| No. 288           | Declaration of Outapi Extension 11 to be an approved township: Townships and Division of Land Ordinance, 1963        |      4 |
| GENERALNOTICES    | GENERALNOTICES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |        |
| No. 476           | Establishment of the township: Osona Village Extension 3                                                                                                                                |      5 |
| No. 477           | Establishment of the township: Osona Village Extension 4                                                                                                                                |      5 |
| No. 478           | Establishment of the township: Engela-Omafo Extension 1                                                                                                                                  |      5 |
| No. 479           | Establishment of the township: Engela-Omafo Extension 2                                                                                                                                  |      6 |
| No. 480           | Establishment of the township: Otavi Extension 11                                                                                                                           |      6 |
| No. 481           | Establishment of the township: Kuisebmond Extension 12                                                                                                                                  |      7 |
| No. 482           | Establishment of the township: Kahenge Extension 2                                                                                                                             |      7 |
| No. 483           | Establishment of the township: Nkurenkuru Extension 6                                                                                                                                |      7 |
| No. 484           | Establishment of the township: Nkurenkuru Extension 7                                                                                                                                |      8 |
| No. 485           | Establishment of the townships: Ongos; Ongos Extensions 1 to 41                                                                                                                                     |      8 |
| No. 486           | Permanent closure of Erf A/476, Sauyemwa Extension 1, measuring ±1923.00m 2 as public open space   |      9 |

| No. 487   | Oshikuku Town Planning Amendment Schemes No. 1 to 5                                                                                                                                                                                                         |   9 |
|-----------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----|
| No. 488   | Okahao Town Planning Amendment Schemes No. 1 to 5                                                                                                                                                                                                        |  10 |
| No. 489   | Otavi Town Planning Amendment Schemes No. 1 to 5                                                                                                                                                                                                     |  10 |
| No. 490   | Permanent closure of Portion A, B and C of Erf 3736 Otjomuise as public open space                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |  10 |
| No. 491   | City of Windhoek: Permanent closing of Portion Aof Erf 3066 Otjomuise, San Mames Street, as public open space (The portion is approximately 305m 2 in extent, adjacent to Erf 3041 Otjomuise and will be sold to the owner of Erf 3041 Otjomuise for consolidation purposes                   |  11 |
| No. 492   | City of Windhoek: Permanent closing of Portion Aof Erf 4251 Windhoek as public open space. (The portion is approximately 337m 2 in extent). The portion will be sold to the owner of Erf 6086 Windhoek for consolidation purposes to be used for residential purposes   |  11 |
| No. 493   | Municipality of Gobabis: Corrected tariff for 100% improvement property tax for the businesses, institutional and industrial for 2016/2017                                                                                      |  12 |
| No. 494   | Bank of Namibia: Amendment: Notification of Appointment of authorised dealers: Orders and Rules under the Exchange Control Regulations of 1961                                                                                               |  12 |
| No. 495   | Bank of Namibia: Statement of Assets and Liabilities as at close of business on 31 October 2016                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |  13 |

## Proclamation

by the

## PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA

No. 10

## RECOGNITION OF DESIGNATION OF CHIEF OF TRADITIONAL COMMUNITY: TRADITIONAL AUTHORITIES ACT, 2000

Under the power vested in me by subsection (2) of section 6 of the Traditional Authorities Act, 2000 (Act No. 25 of 2000), I hereby recognize the designation of the person, in respect of whom the particulars referred to in subsection (1) of that section are set in the Schedule, as the Chief of the traditional community mentioned in the Schedule.

## SCHEDULE

## OVAHERERO TRADITION AUTHORITY

Name:

Office:

Traditional title:

Date of designation:

Traditional community:

Vekuii Rukoro

Windhoek

Ombara Otjitambi

3 November 2016

Ovaherero Traditional Authority

Given under my hand and the Seal of the Republic of Namibia at Windhoek, this 23rd day of November, Two Thousand and Sixteen.

HAGE G. GEINGOB President BY ORDER OF THE PRESIDENT

---

No. 287

## Government Notices

## MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY

No. 286

## COMMENCEMENT OF PART 4 OF CHAPTER V OF COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

Under section 136(2) of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009), I determine that Part 4 of Chapter V of that Act comes into operation on the date on which this notice is published in the Gazette .

**T. TWEYA**  
MINISTER  
OF INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY

---

## MINISTRY OF LAND REFORM

Windhoek, 30 October 2016

## COMMENCEMENT OF COMMUNAL LAND REFORM AMENDMENT ACT, 2013

Under section 8 of the Communal Land Reform Amendment Act, 2013 (Act No. 13 of 2013), I determine that that Act comes into operation on the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette .

U. NUjOMA

MINISTER OF LAND REFORM

No. 288

DETERMINATION OF CATEGORIES OF QUOTA FROM TOTAL ALLOWABLE CATCH IN RESPECT OF ROCK LOBSTER: MARINE RESOURCES ACT, 2000

Under section 38 of the Marine Resources Act, 2000 (Act No. 27 of 2000) and having requested the advice of the Marine Resource Advisory Council, I determine on the basis of the best scientific evidence available that the total allowable catch of Rock Lobster to be allocated for the 2016/2017 fishing season, commercial quota, non-commercial quota and reserve quota are as indicated in Columns 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the Table, respectively.

## TABLE

| Fishery      | Total allowable catch                 | Commercial quota   |   Non-commercial quota |   Reserve quota |
|--------------|---------------------------------------|--------------------|-------------------------|-----------------|
| Rock Lobster | 01/11/2016-30/04/2017 268 metric tons | 268 metric tons    |                       0 |               0 |

**B. ESAU**  
MINISTER  
OF FISHERIES AND MARINE RESOURCES

---

Windhoek,16 November 2016

---

## MINISTRY OF FISHERIES AND MARINE RESOURCES

Windhoek, 17 November 2016

No. 289

## DECLARATION OF OUTAPI EXTENSION 11 TO BE AN APPROVED TOWNSHIP: TOWNSHIPS AND DIVISION OF LAND ORDINANCE, 1963

In terms of Section 13 of the Townships and Division of Land Ordinance, 1963 (Ordinance No. 11 of 1963), I -

- (a) declare the area situated on Portion 21 of Farm Ruacana Townlands No. 860, Registration Division 'A' in the Omusati Region and represented by General Plan No. A325 (S.G. No. A198/2013) to be an approved township; and
- (b) set out in the Schedule the conditions subject to which the application for permission to establish the township concerned has been granted.

**S. SHANINGWA**  
MINISTER  
OF URBAN AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT

## SCHEDULE

Windhoek, 17 October 2016

## MINISTRY OF URBAN AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT

## 1. Name of township:

The township is called Outapi Extension 11.

2. Composition of township:

The township comprises 257 erven numbered 2841 to 3089, and the remainder streets as indicated on General Plan A325.

## 3. Reservation of erven:

Erven 3082 to 3089 are reserved for local authority for public open space and erf 2911 is reserved for civic purposes.

## 4. Conditions of title:

The following conditions are registered in favour of the local authority against the title deeds of all erven except the erven referred to in paragraph 3:

- (a) The erf must be used or occupied for purposes which in accordance with, and the use or occupation of the erf must at all times be subject to, the provisions of the Outapi Town Planning Scheme prepared and approved in terms of the Town Planning Ordinance, 1954 (Ordinance No. 18 of 1954).
- (b) The building value of the main building, including the outbuilding to be erected on the erf, must be at least four times the prevailing valuation of the erf by the local authority.

---

No. 476

## ESTABLISHMENT OF THE TOWNSHIP: OSONA VILLAGE EXTENSION 3

Notice is hereby given in terms of subsection (5) of section 5 of the Townships and Division of Land Ordinance, 1963 (Ordinance 11 of 1963), that application has been made for the Establishment of the township Osona Village Extension 3 situated on the Remainder of Portion 380 of the Farm Osona Commonage No. 65 and that the application is lying open to inspection at the office of the Division Town and Regional Planning, 2nd Floor, GRN Office Park in Windhoek, the Office of the SurveyorGeneral in Windhoek, and at the Office of the Town Clerk, Municipal Council of Okahandja.

Any person who wishes to object to the application or who desires to be heard in the matter, may give personal evidence before the Townships Board at the meeting of the Board which will be held on 14 February 2017 at 9H00 at the Board Room of the Surveyor-General and the Registrar of Deeds in Windhoek, or submit written evidence to the Townships Board, Private Bag 13289, Windhoek: Provided that such written evidence shall reach the Secretary of the Townships Board not later than 7 February 2017 before 12H00 .

## L.D. UYEPA CHAIRMAN: TOWNSHIPS BOARD

---

No. 477

## ESTABLISHMENT OF THE TOWNSHIP: OSONA VILLAGE EXTENSION 4

Notice is hereby given in terms of subsection (5) of section 5 of the Townships and Division of Land Ordinance, 1963 (Ordinance 11 of 1963), that application has been made for the Establishment of the township Osona Village Extension 4 situated on Portion 381 ( a Portion of Portion 380) of the Farm Osona Commonage No. 65 and that the application is lying open to inspection at the office of the Division Town and Regional Planning, 2nd Floor, GRN Office Park in Windhoek, the Office of the Surveyor-General in Windhoek, and at the Office of the Town Clerk, Municipal Council of Okahandja.

Any person who wishes to object to the application or who desires to be heard in the matter, may give personal evidence before the Townships Board at the meeting of the Board which will be held on 14 February 2017 at 9H00 at the Board Room of the Surveyor-General and the Registrar of Deeds in Windhoek, or submit written evidence to the Townships Board, Private Bag 13289, Windhoek: Provided that such written evidence shall reach the Secretary of the Townships Board not later than 7 February 2017 before 12H00 .

L.D. UYEPA

CHAIRMAN: TOWNSHIPS BOARD

---

No. 478

## ESTABLISHMENT OF THE TOWNSHIP: ENGELA-OMAFO EXTENSION 1

Notice is hereby given in terms of subsection (5) of section 5 of the Townships and Division of Land Ordinance, 1963 (Ordinance 11 of 1963), that application has been made for the Establishment of the township Engela-Omafo Extension 1 situated on Portion 32 of the Remainder of the Farm Helao

## General Notices

Nafidi Townlands No. 997 and that the application is lying open to inspection at the office of the Division Town and Regional Planning, 2nd Floor, GRN Office Park in Windhoek, the Office of the Surveyor-General in Windhoek, and at the Office of the Town Clerk, Town Council of Helao Nafidi.

Any person who wishes to object to the application or who desires to be heard in the matter, may give personal evidence before the Townships Board at the meeting of the Board which will be held on 14 February 2017 at 9H00 at the Board Room of the Surveyor-General and the Registrar of Deeds in Windhoek, or submit written evidence to the Townships Board, Private Bag 13289, Windhoek: Provided that such written evidence shall reach the Secretary of the Townships Board not later than 7 February 2017 before 12H00 .

## L.D. UYEPA CHAIRMAN: TOWNSHIPS BOARD

---

No. 479

## ESTABLISHMENT OF THE TOWNSHIP: ENGELA-OMAFO EXTENSION 2

Notice is hereby given in terms of subsection (5) of section 5 of the Townships and Division of Land Ordinance, 1963 (Ordinance 11 of 1963), that application has been made for the Establishment of the township Engela-Omafo Extension 2 situated on Portion 33 of the Remainder of the Farm Helao Nafidi Townlands No. 997 and that the application is lying open to inspection at the office of the Division Town and Regional Planning, 2nd Floor, GRN Office Park in Windhoek, the Office of the Surveyor-General in Windhoek, and at the Office of the Town Clerk, Town Council of Helao Nafidi.

Any person who wishes to object to the application or who desires to be heard in the matter, may give personal evidence before the Townships Board at the meeting of the Board which will be held on 14 February 2017 at 9H00 at the Board Room of the Surveyor-General and the Registrar of Deeds in Windhoek, or submit written evidence to the Townships Board, Private Bag 13289, Windhoek: Provided that such written evidence shall reach the Secretary of the Townships Board not later than 7 February 2017 before 12H00 .

## L.D. UYEPA CHAIRMAN: TOWNSHIPS BOARD

---

No. 480

## ESTABLISHMENT OF THE TOWNSHIP: OTAVI EXTENSION 11

Notice is hereby given in terms of subsection (5) of section 5 of the Townships and Division of Land Ordinance, 1963 (Ordinance 11 of 1963), that application has been made for the Establishment of the township Otavi Extension 11 situated on Portion 4 of the Farm Hoets No. 1134 and that the application is lying open to inspection at the office of the Division Town and Regional Planning, 2nd Floor, GRN Office Park in Windhoek, the Office of the Surveyor-General in Windhoek, and at the Office of the Town Clerk, Town Council of Otavi.

Any person who wishes to object to the application or who desires to be heard in the matter, may give personal evidence before the Townships Board at the meeting of the Board which will be held on 14 February 2017 at 9H00 at the Board Room of the Surveyor-General and the Registrar of Deeds in Windhoek, or submit written evidence to the Townships Board, Private Bag 13289, Windhoek: Provided that such written evidence shall reach the Secretary of the Townships Board not later than 7 February 2017 before 12H00 .

## L.D. UYEPA CHAIRMAN: TOWNSHIPS BOARD

---

No. 481

## ESTABLISHMENT OF THE TOWNSHIP: KUISEBMOND EXTENSION 12

Notice is hereby given in terms of subsection (5) of section 5 of the Townships and Division of Land Ordinance, 1963 (Ordinance 11 of 1963), that application has been made for the Establishment of the township Kuisebmond Extension 12 situated on Erf 5762, Kuisebmond and that the application is lying open to inspection at the office of the Division Town and Regional Planning, 2nd Floor, GRN Office Park in Windhoek, the Office of the Surveyor-General in Windhoek, and at the Office of the Town Clerk, Municipal Council of Walvis Bay.

Any person who wishes to object to the application or who desires to be heard in the matter, may give personal evidence before the Townships Board at the meeting of the Board which will be held on 14 February 2017 at 9H00 at the Board Room of the Surveyor-General and the Registrar of Deeds in Windhoek, or submit written evidence to the Townships Board, Private Bag 13289, Windhoek: Provided that such written evidence shall reach the Secretary of the Townships Board not later than 7 February 2017 before 12H00 .

## L.D. UYEPA CHAIRMAN: TOWNSHIPS BOARD

---

No. 482

## ESTABLISHMENT OF THE TOWNSHIP: KAHENGE EXTENSION 2

Notice is hereby given in terms of subsection (5) of section 5 of the Townships and Division of Land Ordinance, 1963 (Ordinance 11 of 1963), that application has been made for the Establishment of the township Kahenge Extension 2 situated on Portion 2082 of the Farm Nkurenkuru Townlands No. 1346 and that the application is lying open to inspection at the office of the Division Town and Regional Planning, 2nd Floor, GRN Office Park in Windhoek, the Office of the Surveyor-General in Windhoek, and at the Office of the Town Clerk, Town Council of Nkurenkuru.

Any person who wishes to object to the application or who desires to be heard in the matter, may give personal evidence before the Townships Board at the meeting of the Board which will be held on 14 February 2017 at 9H00 at the Board Room of the Surveyor-General and the Registrar of Deeds in Windhoek, or submit written evidence to the Townships Board, Private Bag 13289, Windhoek: Provided that such written evidence shall reach the Secretary of the Townships Board not later than 7 February 2017 before 12H00 .

## L.D. UYEPA CHAIRMAN: TOWNSHIPS BOARD

---

No. 483

## ESTABLISHMENT OF THE TOWNSHIP: NKURENKURU EXTENSION 6

Notice is hereby given in terms of subsection (5) of section 5 of the Townships and Division of Land Ordinance, 1963 (Ordinance 11 of 1963), that application has been made for the Establishment of the township Nkurenkuru Extension 6 situated on Portion 2080 of the Farm Nkurenkuru Townlands No. 1346 and that the application is lying open to inspection at the office of the Division Town and Regional Planning, 2nd Floor, GRN Office Park in Windhoek, the Office of the Surveyor-General in Windhoek, and at the Office of the Town Clerk, Town Council of Nkurenkuru.

Any person who wishes to object to the application or who desires to be heard in the matter, may give personal evidence before the Townships Board at the meeting of the Board which will be held on 14 February 2017 at 9H00 at the Board Room of the Surveyor-General and the Registrar of Deeds in Windhoek, or submit written evidence to the Townships Board, Private Bag 13289, Windhoek: Provided that such written evidence shall reach the Secretary of the Townships Board not later than 7 February 2017 before 12H00 .

## L.D. UYEPA CHAIRMAN: TOWNSHIPS BOARD

---

No. 484

## ESTABLISHMENT OF THE TOWNSHIP: NKURENKURU EXTENSION 7

Notice is hereby given in terms of subsection (5) of section 5 of the Townships and Division of Land Ordinance, 1963 (Ordinance 11 of 1963), that application has been made for the Establishment of the township Nkurenkuru Extension 7 situated on Portion 2081 of the Farm Nkurenkuru Townlands No. 1346 and that the application is lying open to inspection at the office of the Division Town and Regional Planning, 2nd Floor, GRN Office Park in Windhoek, the Office of the Surveyor-General in Windhoek, and at the Office of the Town Clerk, Town Council of Nkurenkuru.

Any person who wishes to object to the application or who desires to be heard in the matter, may give personal evidence before the Townships Board at the meeting of the Board which will be held on 14 February 2017 at 9H00 at the Board Room of the Surveyor-General and the Registrar of Deeds in Windhoek, or submit written evidence to the Townships Board, Private Bag 13289, Windhoek: Provided that such written evidence shall reach the Secretary of the Townships Board not later than 7 February 2017 before 12H00 .

## L.D. UYEPA CHAIRMAN: TOWNSHIPS BOARD

---

No. 485

## ESTABLISHMENT OF THE TOWNSHIPS: ONGOS; ONGOS EXTENSIONS 1 TO 41

Notice is hereby given in terms of subsection (5) of section 5 of the Townships and Division of Land Ordinance, 1963 (Ordinance 11 of 1963), that application has been made for the Establishment of the townships Ongos situated on Portion 923, Ongos Extensions 1 to 17 on Portions 924 to 940 , Ongos Extension 18 on the Remainder of Portion 8 of the Farm Ongos No. 38, Ongos Extensions 19 to 40 on Portions 941 to 961 and Ongos Extension 41 on the Remainder of Portion 9 of the Farm Ongos No. 38 and that the applications are lying open to inspection at the office of the Division Town and Regional Planning, 2nd Floor, GRN Office Park in Windhoek, the Office of the Surveyor-General in Windhoek, and at the Office of the Town Clerk, Municipal Council of Windhoek.

Any person who wishes to object to the application or who desires to be heard in the matter, may give personal evidence before the Townships Board at the meeting of the Board which will be held on 14 February 2017 at 9H00 at the Board Room of the Surveyor-General and the Registrar of Deeds in Windhoek, or submit written evidence to the Townships Board, Private Bag 13289, Windhoek: Provided that such written evidence shall reach the Secretary of the Townships Board not later than 7 February 2017 before 12H00 .

L.D. UYEPA

CHAIRMAN: TOWNSHIPS BOARD

---

No. 486

## PERMANENT CLOSURE OF ERF A/476, SAUYEMWA EXTENSION 1, MEASURING ±1923.00 M 2 AS PUBLIC OPEN SPACE

Notice is hereby given in terms of Section 50(3)(a)(ii) and Section 50(3)(a)(iv) of the Local Authorities Act, 1992 (Act No. 23 of 1992), that the Rundu Town Council intends to permanently close Erf A/476, Sauyemwa Extension 1, measuring ±1923.00 m 2 in extent as a 'Public Open Space. The proposed public open space closure is to enable the Rundu Town Council to consolidate Erf A/476 with Erf C/200, Sauyemwa Extension 1, into Consolidated Erf 'X', for the formalization of the Sauyemwa Visually Impaired School.

Further take note that the locality plan of the above erf lies for inspection during normal office hours on the town planning notice board of the Rundu Town Council and SPC Office, 45 Feld Street, Windhoek.

## PERMANENT CLOSURE OF ERF A/476, SAUYEMWA EXTENSION 1, MEASURING ±1923.00 M 2 AS PUBLIC OPEN SPACE

**Further take note that any person objecting against the proposed street closure as indicated above may lodge such objection together with the grounds thereof, with**  
THE Chief Executive Officer  
Rundu Town Council and with the applicant in writing on or before the Friday, 16 December 2016

| Applicant:   | Stubenrauch Planning Consultants PO Box 41404 Windhoek Tel: 061-251189   |   The Chief Executive Officer Rundu Town Council Stubenrauch Private Bag 2128 Rundu |
|--------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| No. 487      |                                                                          |                                                                                2016 |

## OSHIKUKU TOWN PLANNING AMENDMENT SCHEMES NO. 1 TO 5

Notice is hereby given in terms of Section 17 of the Town Planning Ordinance No. 18 of 1954 as amended that the Oshikuku Town Council intends submitting for approval with the Namibia Planning Advisory Board (NAMPAB) certain amendments to the Oshikuku Town Planning Scheme.

The amendments will include the rezoning and reservation of land.

The Minister of Urban and Rural Development has granted approval for the compilation and submission of the Oshikuku Town Planning Amendment Schemes No. 1 to 5.

Applicant:

The Chief Executive Officer Oshikuku Town Council PO Box 5070 Oshikuku

---

No. 488

## OKAHAO TOWN PLANNING AMENDMENT SCHEMES NO. 1 TO 5

Notice is hereby given in terms of Section 17 of the Town Planning Ordinance No. 18 of 1954 as amended that the Okahao Town Council intends submitting for approval with the Namibia Planning Advisory Board (NAMPAB) certain amendments to the Okahao Town Planning Scheme.

The amendments will include the rezoning and reservation of land.

The Minister of Urban and Rural Development has granted approval for the compilation and submission of the Okahao Town Planning Amendment Schemes No. 1 to 5.

Applicant:

No. 489

## OTAVI TOWN PLANNING AMENDMENT SCHEMES NO. 1 TO 5

Notice is hereby given in terms of Section 17 of the Town Planning Ordinance No. 18 of 1954 as amended that the Otavi Town Council intends submitting for approval with the Namibia Planning Advisory Board (NAMPAB) certain amendments to the Otavi Town Planning Scheme.

The amendments will include the rezoning and reservation of land.

The Minister of Urban and Rural Development has granted approval for the compilation and submission of the Otavi Town Planning Amendment Schemes No. 1 to 5.

Applicant:

No. 490

## PERMANENT CLOSURE OF PORTION A, B AND C OF ERF 3736 OTJOMUISE AS PUBLIC OPEN SPACE

Notice is hereby given in terms of article 50(i)(a)(ii) of the Local Authorities Act, 1992 (Act No. 23 of 1992) that the Windhoek City Council proposes to permanently close Portions, A, B, C of Erf 3736 Otjomuise as Public Open Space, as indicated on locality plan which lies for inspection during office hours at the City of Windhoek, office of Urban Policy, Room 519 Municipal Offices, Independence Avenue. The intention is to consolidate the respective portions with 3728, 3717 and 3727 Otjomuise respectively

## PERMANENT CLOSURE OF PORTION A, B AND C OF ERF 3736 OTJOMUISE AS PUBLIC OPEN SPACE

**Objections to the proposed closing are to be served with**  
THE Chief Executive Officer  
City of Windhoek, P.O. Box 59 Windhoek, Township Board Private Bag 13289 Windhoek, within 14 days after the appearance of this notice in accordance with Article 50(1)(C) of the above Act

The Chief Executive Officer Otavi Town Council PO Box 59 Otavi

---

The Chief Executive Officer Okahao Town Council PO Box 699 Okahao

---

## G.F. DE KLERK ACTING URBAN PLANNER

No. 491

PERMANENT CLOSING OF PORTION A OF ERF 3066 OTJOMUISE, SAN MAMES STREET, AS PUBLIC OPEN SPACE (THE PORTION IS APPROXIMATELY 305 M2 IN EXTENT, ADJACENT TO ERF 3041 OTJOMUISE AND WILL BE SOLD. TO THE OWNER OF ERF 3041 OTJOMUISE FOR CONSOLIDATION PURPOSES

Notice is hereby given in terms of article 50(1)(a)(ii) of the Local Authorities Act, 1992 (Act No. 23 of 1992) that the City of Windhoek proposes to close permanent the undermentioned portion as indicated on locality plan, which lies for inspection during office hours at the office of Urban Policy, Room 514, Municipal Offices, Independence Avenue.

PERMANENT CLOSING OF PORTION A OF ERF 3066 OTJOMUISE, SAN MAMES STREET, AS PUBLIC OPEN SPACE (THE PORTION IS APPROXIMATELY 305 M2 IN EXTENT, ADJACENT TO ERF 3041 OTJOMUISE AND WILL BE SOLD TO THE OWNER OF ERF 3041 OTJOMUISE FOR CONSOLIDATION PURPOSES

Objections to the proposed closing are to be served on the Secretary: Townships Board, Private Bag 13289, and the Chief Executive Officer, P.O. Box 59, Windhoek, within 14 days after the appearance of this notice in accordance with Article 50(1)(C) of the above Act.

## H. RUST ACTING URBAN PLANNER

No. 492

PERMANENT CLOSING OF PORTION A OF ERF 4251 WINDHOEK AS PUBLIC OPEN SPACE. (THE PORTION IS APPROXIMATELY 337M 2 IN EXTENT). THE PORTION WILL BE SOLD TO THE OWNER OF ERF 6086 WINDHOEK FOR CONSOLIDATION PURPOSES TO BE USED FOR RESIDENTIAL PURPOSES

Notice is hereby given in terms of article 50(1)(a)(ii) of the Local Authorities Act, 1992 (Act No. 23 of 1992) that the City of Windhoek proposes to permanently close the undermentioned portion as indicated on locality plan, which lies for inspection during office hours at the office of the Division: Urban Planning Room 519, Municipal Offices, Independence Avenue.

PERMANENT CLOSING OF PORTION A OF ERF 4251 WINDHOEK AS PUBLIC OPEN SPACE, (THE PORTION IS APPROXIMATELY 337M 2 IN EXTENT). THE PORTION WILL BE SOLD TO THE OWNER OF ERF 6086 WINDHOEK FOR CONSOLIDATION PURPOSES TO BE USED FOR RESIDENTIAL PURPOSES

Objections to the proposed closing are to be served on the Secretary: Townships Board, Private Bag 13289, and the Chief Executive Officer, P.O. Box 59, Windhoek, within 14 days after the appearance of this notice in accordance with Article 50(1)(C) of the above Act.

H. RUST SECTION PLANNER: URBAN POLICY

---

---

## CITY OF WINDHOEK

---

## CITY OF WINDHOEK

No. 493

## CORRECTED TARIFF FOR 100% IMPROVEMENT PROPERTY TAX FOR THE BUSINESSES, INSTITUTIONAL AND INDUSTRIAL FOR 2016/2017

Upon the implementation of the gazetted tariffs for 2016 / 2017 financial year our Finance department detected that a calculation error in the above tariff, emanated from the financial year 2014/2015.

After recalculation of the tariffs for 100% improvement for businesses, Institutional and Industrial property tax, we can confirm that the gazetted tariffs should be 0.0237032 instead of 0.200566 as already gazetted.

## 1. Current gazette tariffs - 100 % improvement for Businesses Institutional and Industrial Property:

| Businesses / Institutional / Industries   |   2014 / 2015 | 2015 / 2016                              | 2016/2017                                     |
|-------------------------------------------|---------------|------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|
| Improvement 100%                          |     0.0140256 | 30 %increase Wrongly calculated 0.154282 | 30% increase Wrongly carried forward 0.200566 |

## 2. Corrected tariff to be re-gazette:

| Businesses / Institutional / Industries   |   2014 / 2015 | 2015 / 2016            | 2016/2017              |
|-------------------------------------------|---------------|------------------------|------------------------|
| Improvement 100%                          |     0.0140256 | 30% increase 0.0182332 | 30% increase 0.0237032 |

**E. DAWIDS**  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
No. 494

## AMENDMENT: NOTIFICATION OF APPOINTMENT OF AUTHORISED DEALERS: ORDERS AND RULES UNDER THE EXCHANGE CONTROL REGULATIONS OF 1961

It is notified that the Bank of Namibia, pursuant to section 11 of the Bank of Namibia Act, No.2 OF 1998, as amended read with Regulation 2 of the Exchange Control Regulations of 1961, as amended and published under Government Notice No. R 1112 of 1 December 1961, has-

- a) Appointed Banco Privado Atlantico - Europa, S.A. - Namibia Branch and Bank Bic Namibia Ltd . as Authorised Dealers in foreign exchange with effect from the date of publication of this notice; and
- b) Substituted the following paragraph for paragraph (a) of rule 3 as amended by Government Notices 4 of 1 June 1990, 20 of 16 July 1990, 218 of 15 August 1996, 251 of 31 August 2007, 254 of 23 October 2009, 335 of 20 December 2010, 443 of 15 November 2013 and General Notice No. 461 of 1 November 2016.

## MUNICIPALITY OF GOBABIS

---

## BANK OF NAMIBIA

'(a) The Banks and Authorised Dealers with Limited Authority specified hereunder have been appointed as Authorised Dealers in foreign exchange for the purposes of the regulations:

1. Banco Privado Atlantico - Europa, S.A. - Namibia Branch
2. Bank Bic Namibia Ltd.
3. Bank Windhoek Limited
4. Cambio Express
5. Cambio Seguro
6. Casa de Cambio Forex (Pty) Ltd
7. EBank Namibia (Pty) Ltd
8. First National Bank of Namibia Limited
9. Gampak Investments (Pty) T/A
10. Interchange Money Exchange Namibia (Pty) Limited
11. Limited Rock Hard Bureau de Change (Pty) Limited
12. Magnet Bureau de Change (Pty) Limited
13. Namibia Bureau de Change (Pty) Limited
14. Nedbank Namibia (Pty) Limited
15. Novacambios Namibia (Pty) Limited
16. Oshikango Bureau de Change (Pty) Limited
17. Paragon Bureau de Change (Pty) Limited
18. Real Transfer Bureau de Change (Pty)
19. SME Bank Limited
20. Standard Bank Namibia Limited
21. United Bureau de Change (Pty) Limited.'.

## I. SHIIMI GOVERNOR BANK OF NAMIBIA

---

## BANK OF NAMIBIA

| No. 495                           |                                   |                                   | 2016                              |
|-----------------------------------|-----------------------------------|-----------------------------------|-----------------------------------|
| STATEMENT OFASSETSAND LIABILITIES | STATEMENT OFASSETSAND LIABILITIES | STATEMENT OFASSETSAND LIABILITIES | STATEMENT OFASSETSAND LIABILITIES |
|                                   |                                   | 331-10-2016                       | 30-09-2016                        |
| ASSETS                            | ASSETS                            |                                   |                                   |
| Rand Cash                         |                                   | 91 259 828                        | 127 746 498                       |
| IMF - SDR Holdings                |                                   | 116 022 001                       | 119 566 127                       |
| IMF - Quota Subscription          |                                   | 3 837 660 946                     | 3 837 660 946                     |
| Investments                       | - Rand Currency                   | 12 873 232 234                    | 8 559 912 341                     |
|                                   | - Other Currency                  | 12 072 442 848                    | 12 865 109 082                    |
|                                   | - Interest Accrued                | 6 064 715                         | 13 170 546                        |
| Domestic:                         | Domestic:                         |                                   |                                   |
| Currency Inventory Account        | Currency Inventory Account        | 126 871 581                       | 130 833 692                       |
| Loans and Advances:      | Other                                | 482 755 660                          | 754 441 301           |
| Fixed Assets             |                                      | 309 056 495                          | 307 801 987           |
| Other Assets             |                                      | 5 024 633 331                        | 5 064 813 895         |
|                          |                                      | 34 939 999 639                       | 31 781 056 415        |
| LIABILITIES              |                                      |                                      |                       |
| Share capital            |                                      | 40 000 000                           | 40 000 000            |
| General Reserve          |                                      | 1 197 332 206                        | 1 197 332 206         |
| Revaluation Reserve      |                                      | 5 931 253 252                        | 6 034 544 098         |
| Development Fund Reserve |                                      | 43 789 289                           | 43 789 289            |
| Training Fund Reserve    |                                      | 15 000 044                           | 15 000 044            |
| Unrealised Gains Reserve |                                      | 4 269 318                            | 4 269 318             |
| Currency in Circulation  |                                      | 4 003 275 008                        | 3 961 263 259         |
| Deposits:                | Government                           | 5 242 603 894                        | 5 600 318 286         |
|                          | Bankers - Reserve                    | 1 182 055 322                        | 1 152 060 179         |
|                          | Bankers - Current                    | 1 513 956 237                        | 1 792 230 586         |
|                          | Other                                | 9 015 299 356                        | 5 123 088 898         |
| IMF - SDRAllocation      |                                      | 3 837 660 947                        | 2 558 483 865         |
| IMF - Securities Account |                                      | 2 482 646 433                        | 3 837 660 946         |
| Other Liabilities        |                                      | 430 858 333                          | 421 015 441           |
|                          |                                      | 34 939 999 639                       | 31 781 056 415        |
| I. W. SHIIMI             |                                      | K.MATHEW                             |                       |
| GOVERNOR                 |                                      | CHIEFFINANCIALOFFICER                | CHIEFFINANCIALOFFICER |