

## GOVERNMENT GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA

| N$6.00         | WINDHOEK - 21 May 2018                                                                                        | No. 6598       |
|----------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------|
| GENERAL NOTICE | GENERAL NOTICE                                                                                                | GENERAL NOTICE |
| No. 189        | Notice of reconsideration in terms of section 31 of the Communications Act, 2009   | 1              |
| General Notice | General Notice                                                                                                | General Notice |

## COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

No. 189

## NOTICE OF RECONSIDERATION IN TERMS OF SECTON 31 OF THE COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of section 31 of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009) read with regulations 11 and 20 of the 'Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences and Spectrum Use Licence, in Government Gazette No. 4785, General Notice No. 272 dated 29 August 2011 (as amended), herewith gives notice that MTN Business Namibia (Pty) Limited has submitted an application for reconsideration, dated 20 March 2018, in respect of a decision by the Authority's decision to decline an extension to MTN Business Solutions Namibia (Pty) Ltd to commence utilisation of its spectrum licence for 2387-2397 MHz on or before 31 March 2018.

The reasons and grounds for the application for reconsideration are contained in the application that can be inspected at the offices of the Authority. The public may submit comments in writing to the Authority within a period of fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette .

The applicant may submit written reply comments within fourteen (14) days from the due date of the written public comments.

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submission is made, fi different and be clear and concise.

All written submissions and reply comments must be made either physically or electronically -

- (1) By hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (2) By post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek 9000;
- (3) By electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na;
- (4) By facsimile to the following facsimile number: +264 61 222790; or
- (5) By fax to e-mail to: 088642748.

**FESTUS MBANDEKA**  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---