

## GOVERNMENT GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA

N$15.00

WINDHOEK - 24 April 2019

No. 6883

## CONTENTS

Page

| GENERALNOTICES   | GENERALNOTICES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |    |
|------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----|
| No. 91           | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Amendment of General Notice No. 63 published under Government Gazette No. 6863 dated 26 March 2019                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |  2 |
| No. 92           | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice of decision pertaining to the 'USAGE OF THE WORD'UNLIMITED' in the advertisements for telecommunications services by all telecommunications service licensees providing services within the borders of Namibia or any part thereof            |  2 |
| No. 93           | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice of the following decision which is applicable to all telecommunications service licensees from date of publication of this notice in the Gazette .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |  5 |
| No. 94           | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations 19(1) of the Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences and Spectrum Use Licences                                                                                                                          |  6 |
| No. 95           | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of Section 53(7) of the Communications Act, 2009 read with the Regulations Regarding the Submissions of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs                                                                                                     |  9 |
| No. 96           | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations Regarding the Submissions of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | 14 |
| No. 97           | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations Regarding the Submission of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | 15 |
| No. 98           | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations Regarding the Submissions of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | 20 |
| No. 99           | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations Regarding the Submissions of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | 21 |
| No. 100          | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations Prescribing the National Numbering Plan for use in the Provision of Telecommunications Services in the Republic of Namibia, Numbering Licence Fee and Procedures for Number Licences: Commuincations Act, 2009   | 23 |

No. 101 Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations Prescribing the National Numbering Plan for use in the Provision of Telecommunications Services in the Republic of Namibia, Numbering Licence Fee and Procedures for Number Licences: Commuincations Act, 2009 

---

## General Notices

## COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

No. 91

## GOVERNMENT GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia herewith gives Notice that the public hearing, that was to take place on 29 April 2019 regarding the reasons for the Amendment of the Regulations Prescribing the National Numbering Plan for use in the provision of Telecommunications Services in the Republic of Namibia, Numbering Licence Fee and Procedures for Number Licenses (Number Portability) published under Government Gazette No. 6692, General Notice No. 500, dated 30 August 2018 set out in the Schedule, is hereby cancelled.

**F. KISHI**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD DIRECTORS  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

No. 92

NOTICE OF DECISION PERTAINING TO THE 'USAGE OF THE WORD 'UNLIMITED' IN THE ADVERTISEMENTS FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES By ALL TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE LICENSEES PROVIDING SERVICES WITHIN THE BORDERS OF NAMIBIA OR ANy PART THEREOF

## BACKGROUND TO DECISION:

A complaint was submitted to the Authority in a matter of Michael Atkinson // Mobile Telecommunication Limited , which complaint was filed on 5 January 2015, wherein Mr. Atkinson complained that MTC advertisement referring to their Internet access as 'unlimited' was misleading, because the service was subjected to limitations contained in the fair usage policy. The Authority found that the use of the word 'unlimited' is indeed misleading and further that it constitutes false advertising and thus a direct contravention of Section 79 of the Communication Act. Mobile Telecommunication Limited was thus ordered by the Authority to withdraw the advert and further to align it with the principles of the Fair and Acceptable Use Policy.

In 2018, Mobile Telecommunications Limited submitted a complaint to the Authority in that this ruling should be made applicable to all providers of telecommunications services to ensure fair and equal treatment of all licensees.

## CONSIDERATION OF ISSUES

1. The Authority's position in the Atkinson matter was that the Mobile Telecommunication Limited's advert using the word 'unlimited' internet while customer's usage is subject to the Fair and Acceptable Use Policy, which throttles the initial speed that the customer signed up for and the quantity of the data is limited, constitutes false advertising.
2. The Authority's decision was influenced by the position in the case of Telkom Mobile unlimited // Faulkner 1 where it was held that Regulators are there to control deceptive, misleading or untrue advertising and the wide variety of sophisticated techniques used. It was further held that a false advertisement can be classified as deceptive as opposed to making an honest mistake.
3. Bandwidth throttling is the intentional 'slowing down' of Internet services by an Internet service provider. It is a reactive measure employed in communication networks to regulate network traffic and minimize bandwidth congestion.
4. MTC's Fair and Acceptable Use Policy which sets out the customers' use of its services. 7.30 Paragraph 4.1 of the Policy states that:

'There is no limit on the monthly network usage. However, depending on the customer's product/package, should a customer's usage reach 50GB or 90GB (whichever is applicable) within one billing cycle month, the downloading and uploading speed shall be reduced to 512kbps for 3G packages and 1Mbps for 4G packages for the remainder of the billing cycle month notwithstanding the fact that payments or additional bundles have been made or purchased.'(Our emphasis)

5. Paragraph 4.1 of the Policy puts restrictions on the network usage by the customer. It is noted that the Telecom Namibia fair use policy for pre and post-paid packages has the same import as that of MTC.
6. According to Collins dictionary, the word unlimited means without limits or bounds and it also mean not restricted, limited or qualified. 2
7. It is therefore the Authority's position that when any telecommunications service provider is advertising its internet services, using the word 'unlimited' will constitute false advertising if there is any restriction on internet usage, either in speed or value of the internet bundle.
8. This is especially because when it comes to the provision of internet services, the consumers' choice is not only influenced by the size of the data bundle but also the speed at which the bundle will be utilized. A restriction on the internet speed when a customer has exceeded a certain amount of data usage is thus as material in the consideration of when the service is unlimited, as is the size of the bundle itself.
9. The word unlimited is not a true reflection of how the services are provided as unlimited would mean the absence of any form of restrictions, be it speed or bundle size.

1 Telkom Mobile Unlimited// C Faulkner 2016-3203F (ASC)

2 http://www.collinsdictionary.com/dictionary/english/unlimited

10. Section 79 of the Communications Act 3 provides for consumer protection and embodies the requirements that a licensee must meet in order to protect the consumer. The nub of section 79(1) is that licensees are expected to make full disclosure of information to consumers concerning the terms and conditions for the provision of telecommunication services 4 .
11. The Fair and Acceptable Use policy by the Licensees falls squarely within section 79(1) as same is given to consumers at the point of contracting.
12. The fact that the offer is effectively limited to X GB, for instance, is a material condition, especially given that this limitation contradicts the prominent message of 'unlimited' data. The Licensees therefore carry a responsibility to communicate this limitation upfront, rather than hiding it in its policies and fine print.
13. The Authority is thus of the position that any advert for the sale of internet services using the word 'unlimited' internet while the customer's usage is subject to the Fair and Acceptable Use Policy which throttles the initial speed that the customer signed up for and the quantity of the data is limited, constitutes false advertising.

## DECISION

On the 7th of December 2018, the Authority resolved:

- a) Telecommunications service licensees advertising telecommunications services and products are prohibited from using the word 'unlimited' in any of their advertisements, if the advert does not reflect the terms and conditions of the Fair and Acceptable Use Policy. Any advert for internet/broadband services utilising the term 'unlimited' by a telecommunications service licensees, which is subject to limitations in the fair use policy, must contain the terms and conditions contained in the Fair Use Policy on the advert. A mere reference of the fair usage policy in the advert without giving the terms of the policy is prohibited.
- b) Telecommunication service licensees that have packages contradicting the resolution in (a) are directed to withdraw the advertisement and replace it with wording that accurately reflects the essence of the applicable Fair and Acceptable Use Policy.
- c) Telecommunications Service Licensees must implement this decision within thirty (30) days from date on which this notice is published in the Gazette and provide the Authority with proof of implementation

**F. KISHI**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD DIRECTORS  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

3 Communications Act No. 8 of 2009

4 I submit that this provision is pervasive throughout the contract and does not only apply to the point of contracting. If the latter were true then consumers will only be protected at the point of contracting. That could not have been the intention of Parliament in enacting the Act.

No. 93

NOTICE OF THE FOLLOWING DECISION WHICH IS APPLICABLE TO ALL TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE LICENSEES FROM DATE OF PUBLICATION OF THIS NOTICE IN THE GAzette

## 1. BACKGROUND SUMMARY

A complaint was submitted to the Authority in the matter of Mr . Tironnen Kauluma // Mobile Telecommunications Limited, which complaint was filed on 27 March 2014. The dispute was based on clause 7 of the MTC's Subscription Service Agreement which inter alia stipulated that:

' Duration of the Agreement- This agreement shall commence on the commencement Date and shall endure from the contract period, subject to the provision of section 12, whereafter it shall continue indefinitely unless substituted by another Subscriber service agreement in respect of the services or terminated by either party giving the other party not less than 30 days written notice of termination; provided that should the license be suspended or terminated by NCC or any other lawful authority, MTC may cancel this agreement without notice, and/or suspend the services until such time as the License is reinstated. Should the Subscriber decide to terminate this agreement prior to the expiry of the initial contract period, then and in such an event the Subscriber shall remain liable for his monthly subscription charges for the remaining months of the contract.'

On the 16th of June 2017, the Authority resolved that Clause 7 of MTC's terms and conditions be amended as follows:

- (a) Before the expiry of the Agreement in accordance with the provisions of clause 7 thereof, MtC shall in writing notify the Subscriber that he or she is entitled to extend the Agreement by a further contract period, in which event the subscriber would be entitled to an offer for a new cellular phone. the extension of the subscription Agreement in accordance with this clause shall be in writing and shall be signed by or on behalf of both parties. In the event of such an extension, the remaining provisions of the subscription agreement will apply.'
- (b) Where the Agreement is not extended in accordance with the provisions of the clause 7A but nevertheless continues to operate indefinitely in accordance with clause 7 hereof, then, the Subscriber will not be required to pay such monthly charges as MTC levied or was entitled to levy as part of the cost of the original cellular phone, if any, provided to the Subscriber in terms of this Agreement.

## 2. APPLICATION OF THE MTC//TIRRONEN KAULUMA DECISION TO THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS INDUSTRY

On the 16 th of October 2018, the Authority resolved that the decision taken by the Authority in the matter of Tironnen Kauluma versus Mobile Telecommunications Limited on the 16 th of June 2017, shall be applicable to all telecommunications service licensees as follows:

- (a) In respect of existing and future Telecommunications Service Licensees who offer and or intend to offer mobile telecommunications subscription Packages / Agreements with subsidized telecommunications devices:
- (i) That the licensee notify its customers 30 days before such customers' Subscription Agreement lapses in writing of the date upon which his/her contract is lapsing and that he or she is entitled to extend the Agreement by a further contract period, in which the Customer would be entitled to an offer for a new device.

No. 94

NOTICE IN TERMS OF REGULATION 19(1) OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING LICENSING PROCEDURES FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND BROADCASTING SERVICE LICENCES AND SPECTRUM USE LICENCES

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms Regulation 19(1) of the Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences and Spectrum Use Licences, published in Government Gazette No. 4785, Notice No. 272, dated 29 August 2011 (as amended), hereby gives notice of the following decisions:

- (ii) that the extension of the subscription Agreement should be in writing, and should be signed by both the telecommunication service provider and the Customer. In the event of such extension, the remaining provisions of the subscription agreement should apply.
- (iii) that in the event the Agreement is not extended in accordance with the provisions of the agreement but nevertheless continues to operate indefinitely, then, the subscriber should be automatically transferred to a Standard Package with a reduced subscription and no handset.
- (b) In respect of existing and future Telecommunications Service Licensees who offer and or intend to offer fixed telecommunications subscription Packages / Agreements with subsidized telecommunications devices:
- (i) That the licensee notify its customers 30 days before such customers' Subscription Agreement lapses in writing of the date upon which his/her contract is lapsing and that he or she is entitled to extend the Agreement by a further contract period, in which the Customer would be entitled to an offer for a new device from the Service Provider on the package to subscribe to depending on whether they want to renew or proceed with the agreement.
- (ii) the extension of the subscription Agreement should be in writing, and should be signed by both the Telecommunications Service Provider and the Customer. In the event of such extension, the remaining provisions of the subscription agreement should apply.
- (c) That the principles addressed herein must be applied to all new and existing Subscribers with contracts that lapse after the date on which this decision was communicated to the public in the Government Gazette.
- (d) That all new telecommunications service providers entering the market should ensure that their packages and customer subscription agreements complies with this decision and that such packages and tariffs should be submitted to the Authority for approval pursuant to section 53 of the Communications Act, 2009 (ActNo. 8 of 2009).

**F. KISHI**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD DIRECTORS  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

## 1. Application for a Community Broadcasting Service Licence

- a) The Authority resolved to award a Community Broadcasting Service Licence to Usakos Radio Station for the provision of broadcasting services within the boundaries of the Republic of Namibia or any part thereof. The Authority further resolved to award a Spectrum Use Licence to Usakos Radio Station as indicated in the table below:

| Description of geographic coverage area   | Description of geographic coverage area   | Description of geographic coverage area   | Radio frequencies awarded   | Maximum outputpower   |
|-------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|-----------------------------|-----------------------|
| Region                                    | District                                  | Town                                      |                             |                       |
| Erongo                                    | Usakos                                    | Usakos                                    | 88.0 MHz                    | 250 Watts             |

## 2. Applications for a Class Telecommunications Service Licence and Spectrum Use Licenses

- a) The Authority resolved to decline the award of a Class Telecommunications Service Licence (ECS) to Centauri Private Equity (Pty) Ltd.
- b) The Authority resolved to award a Class Telecommunications Service Licence (ECNS) to Namibian Ports Authority for the implementation of its private electronic communications network. The Authority further resolved to award Namibian Ports Authority the following spectrum use licence for implementation of a fixed microwave links network: Tx/Rx: 12877.00/13143.00 MHz, with the bandwidth of 28 MHz.

## 3. Application for additional Spectrum Use Licence

- a) The Authority resolved to award a spectrum use licence to Witel Service Provider (Pty) Ltd for the provision of fixed satellite wireless services as indicated below:
- (i) 14 351.5 MHz (centre frequency) uplink with a bandwidth of 3 MHz;
- (ii) 11 549.506 MHz (centre frequency) downlink with a bandwidth of 3 MHz within the borders of the Republic of Namibia.
- b) The Authority resolved to award a spectrum use licence to Witel Service Provider (Pty) Ltd for the provision of fixed wireless services as indicated below;
- (i) Tx/RX: 5945.205/6197.245 MHz (centre frequency) with a bandwidth of 29.65 MHz within the borders of the Republic of Namibia.

## 4. Applications for Amendment of Spectrum Use Licence

- a) The Authority resolved, with effect from date of this Notice, to amend the spectrum use licence awarded to Maroela Trust to allow for the relocation of the transmitter from Ondangwa to Oshakati.

## 5. Application for Transfer of Community Broadcasting Service Licence

- a) The Authority resolved to approve the transfer of a Community Broadcasting Service Licence and Spectrum Use Licences from Maroela Trust to Shipi FM (Non-profit Association Incorporated under Section 21).

## 6. Lapse of a Commercial Broadcasting Service License

- a) The Authority noted that the commercial broadcasting service licence awarded to Econet Media Namibia (Pty) Limited automatically lapsed on 08 November 2018.

## 7. Modification of Spectrum Use Licences

- a) The Authority resolved to modify the spectrum use licence awarded to Media For Christ from 854.300 MHz to 443.050 MHz and from 855.750 MHz to 442.400 MHz for the implementation of a fixed wireless link between the broadcasting studio and transmitter within the geographical area of Windhoek.
- b) The Authority resolved to approve the modification of the spectrum use licence awarded to Trustco Administrative Support Services (Pty) Ltd from 102.7 MHz to 107.2 MHz.
- c) The Authority resolved to approve the modification of the spectrum use licence awarded to 99FM (Pty) Ltd from 854.900 MHz to 447.800 MHz for implementation of a fixed wireless link between the broadcasting studio and transmitter within the geographical area of Windhoek.

## 8. Revocation of Authority's decision

- a) The Authority resolved to revoke the approval of the transfer of control of the broadcasting service licence and spectrum use Licences awarded to 99 FM (Pty) Ltd , as published in the Government Gazette No. 6474, General Notice No. 480, dated 21 November 2017; and confirm 99 FM (Pty) Ltd.'s shareholding structure as was before the approval:

Christina Magdalena Greeff:

55%;

Deborah Anne Rowles:

15%;

Christina Magdalena Hugo:

15%;

Magrieta Cornelia Boltmann:

15%.

## 9. Applications for Reconsideration

- b) The Authority resolved to approve the request for reconsideration submitted by Hype Radio CC , and awarded a Commercial Broadcasting Service Licence to Hype Radio and d a Spectrum Use Licence as indicated below:
- c) The Authority resolved to approve the request for reconsideration submitted by Academia Neighbourhood Watch , and awarded a Class Non-Profit (ECNS) Telecommunications Service Licence to Academia Neighbourhood Watch subject to additional conditions as will be stipulated in the license.
- d) The Authority resolved to set aside its decision of 27 June 2018, regarding an application for a Class Network Facilities Telecommunications Service Licence submitted by Atlas Tower Investment (Pty) Ltd and award a Class Network Facilities Telecommunications Service Licence to Atlas Tower Investment (Pty) Ltd.
- e) The Authority resolved to approve the request for reconsideration submitted by Gospel Mission Ministries , and renewed the Community Broadcasting Service Licence and Spectrum Use Licence of Gospel Mission Ministries, subject to additional conditions to be stipulated in the license

| Radio     | Description of geographical coverage area   | Description of geographical coverage area   | Description of geographical coverage area   | Maximum      |
|-----------|---------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------|--------------|
| Frequency | Region                                      | District                                    | Site Location                               | Output power |
| 104.0 MHz | Oshana                                      | Oshakati                                    | Powercom (Pty) Ltd Tower                    | 500 Watts    |

## 10. Application for Commercial Broadcasting Service Licences

- a) The Authority resolved to award a Broadcasting Service Licence for Signal Distribution to Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd .
- b) The Authority resolved to award a Commercial Broadcasting Service Licence to Universal Media CC for the provision of broadcasting services within the boundaries of the Republic of Namibia or any part thereof, and to award Spectrum Licences to Universal Media CC as detailed in the Table below. The Spectrum Licenses are awarded subject to the relevant provisions of the Communications Act, 2009, and the Regulations Regarding License Conditions for Spectrum Use Licensee as published in Government Gazette No. 5354, General Notice No. 469, dated 2 December 2013. Notwithstanding the provisions of regulations 6(4) and (5) of the Regulations Regarding License Conditions for Spectrum Use Licensee, the Spectrum License shall lapse after twelve (12) months if the licensee fail to commence providing broadcasting services in respect of those Spectrum Licenses.

| Radio     | Description of geographical coverage area   | Description of geographical coverage area   | Description of geographical coverage area   | Maximum      |
|-----------|---------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------|--------------|
| Frequency | Region                                      | District                                    | Site Location                               | Output power |
| 105.5 MHz | Otjozondjupa                                | Okahandja                                   | Okahandja Powercom (Pty) Ltd Tower          | 20 Watts     |

All the above decisions are effective from date of this notice.

The full reasons for the decisions can be requested from the Authority. Further, in terms of section 31 of the Communications Act, No.8 of 2009, the Authority may, on its own motion or on a petition filed by an aggrieved party to any proceedings, reconsider any order or decision that it has made, within 90 days from the date of this notice.

**F. KISHI**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD DIRECTORS  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

No. 95

NOTICE IN TERMS OF SECTION 53(7) OF THE COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009 READ WITH THE REGULATIONS REGARDING THE SUBMISSIONS OF INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENTS AND TARIFFS

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms section 53(1) and (7) of the Communications Act read together with regulation 8 of the Regulations Regarding the Submission of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs, published in Government Gazette No. 4714, General Notice No. 126, dated 18 May 2011, hereby gives notice that it has approved:

- (a) Amendment to Jiva package tariffs as submitted by Telecom Namibia Limited :

| Proposed                      | Jiva Current   | Jiva Proposed   | Jiva Plus Current   | Jiva Plus Proposed   | Jiva Surf Current   | Jiva Surf Proposed   |
|-------------------------------|----------------|-----------------|---------------------|----------------------|---------------------|----------------------|
| Voice Minutes 100             | 130            | 100             | 130                 | 150                  | 200                 |                      |
| Data                          | 1GB            | 1.5GB           | 1.3GB               | 2GB                  | 1.3GB               | 2GB                  |
| SMS                           | 700            | 700             | 700                 | 700                  | 1000                | 1000                 |
| Social Media                  | -              | -               | 500MB               | 500MB                | 500MB               | 500MB                |
| Night Surfer (Unlimited Data) | -              | -               | -                   | -                    | 00h00 - 05h59       | 00h00 05h59          |
| Subscription Fee              | N$30           | N$30            | N$35                | N$35                 | N$40                | N$40                 |
| Subscription Code             | *130*776#      | *130*776#       | *130*777#           | *130*777#            | *130*778#           | *130*778#            |

(b) New Post-paid package tariffs as submitted by Mobile Telecommunications Limited :

Select Exisitng Select with a Device)

| FUP                      | 90GB              | 90GB      | 90GB      | 90GB         | 90GB       | 90GB           |
|--------------------------|-------------------|-----------|-----------|--------------|------------|----------------|
| Technology               | 4G                | 4G        | 4G        | 4G           | 4G         | 4G             |
| Shared sim rules         | Only 1 per SP     |           |           |              |            |                |
| Social Media             | -                 | 100       | 300       | 512          | 1,024      | 2,048          |
| DataMB                   | -                 | 512       | 1,536     | 3,072        | 5,120      | 10,240         |
| SMS Qty                  | -                 | 50        | 250       | 600          | 900        | 1,000          |
| Voice Minutes            | -                 | 50        | 250       | 600          | 900        | 1,000          |
| Subscription Fee N$      | 50                | 99        | 299       | 499          | 699        | 899            |
| Connection fee N$        | 218               | 218       | 218       | 218          | 218        | 218            |
| Contract Period (Months) | 12&24             | 12&24     | 12&24     | 12&24        | 12&24      | 12&24          |
| Package                  | Select Shared sim | Select Go | Select Up | Select Super | Select Pro | Select Premium |

| Social Media        | 105      | 155     | 305      | 1,234     | 305   | 1,029   |
|---------------------|----------|---------|----------|-----------|-------|---------|
| DataMB              | 200      | 300     | 600      | 2,400     | 600   | 2,048   |
| SMS                 | 200      | 300     | 600      | 900       | 600   | 900     |
| Voice               | 200      | 300     | 600      | 900       | 600   | 900     |
| Subscription Fee N$ | 169      | 269     | 429      | 799       | 639   | 929     |
| Connection N$       | 218      | 218     | 218      | 218       | 218   | 218     |
| Contract Period     | 24       | 24      | 24       | 24        | 24    | 24      |
| Select              | Select S | SelectM | Select L | Select XL | DuetM | Duet L  |

Mobiz Social Media Data MB

Exisitng Mobiz (with a Device)

| FUP                 | 90GB             | 90GB        | 90GB         | 90GB          | 90GB         | 90GB       | 90GB         | 90GB          |
|---------------------|------------------|-------------|--------------|---------------|--------------|------------|--------------|---------------|
| Technology          | 4G               | 4G          | 4G           | 4G            | 4G           | 4G         | 4G           | 4G            |
| Shared sim rules    | Only 1 per SP    |             |              |               |              |            |              |               |
| Social Media        | 0                | 100         | 200          | 400           | 512          | 1,024      | 2,048        | 4,096         |
| DataMB              | 0                | 512         | 1,024        | 2,048         | 4,096        | 6,144      | 10,240       | 20,480        |
| SMS Qty             | 0                | 50          | 150          | 250           | 600          | 900        | 1,000        | 3,000         |
| Voice Minutes       | 0                | 50          | 150          | 250           | 600          | 900        | 1,000        | 3,000         |
| Subscription Fee N$ | 50               | 99          | 199          | 299           | 499          | 699        | 899          | 1,499         |
| Connection fee N$   | 218              | 218         | 218          | 218           | 218          | 218        | 218          | 218           |
| Contract Period     | 12&24            | 12&24       | 12&24        | 12&24         | 12&24        | 12&24      | 12&24        | 12&24         |
| Package             | Mobiz Shared sim | Mobiz Sky I | Mobiz Sky ll | Mobiz Sky III | Mobiz Sky IV | Mobiz SkyV | Mobiz Sky VI | Mobiz Sky VII |

SMS Qty

Voice Minutes

Subscription

Connection

Contract Fee N$

fee N$

Period

Mobiz 190

Mobiz 200

Mobiz 300

Mobiz 600

1,234

2,400

Mobiz 900

1,755

3,500

1,500

1,500

1,389

Mobiz 1500

SmartShare FUP

Technology

Shared sim

Social

Data MB

SMS Qty

Voice

Subscription

Connection

Contract

Package rules Media Minutes Fee N$

fee N$

Period

20GB

4G

20,480

12&amp;24

SmartShare TurboBoost 20GB

125GB

4G

128,000

12&amp;24

SmartShare TurboBoost 125GB

FUP

Technology

Shared sim

Social

Data MB

SMS Qty

Voice

Subscription

Connection

Contract

Package rules Media Minutes Fee N$

fee N$

Period

90GB

4G

5 per SP

-

-

-

-

12&amp;24

SmartShare Shared sim

90GB

4G

3,072

12&amp;24

SmartShare Mini

90GB

4G

1,024

5,120

12&amp;24

SmartShare Multi

90GB

4G

1,648

8,192

1,000

1,000

12&amp;24

SmartShare Maxi

90GB

4G

2,458

12,288

2,000

2,000

12&amp;24

SmartShare Mega MTC One on One FUP

Exisitng SmartShare (With a Device)

| Technology           |     3G | 4G            |                     |            |            |            |            |            |            |            |            |            |
|----------------------|--------|---------------|---------------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|
| Shared sim           |        |               | rules               | rules      | rules      | rules      | rules      | rules      | rules      | rules      | rules      | rules      |
| Social               |        |               | Social Media        | 105        | 205        | 305        | 1,029      | 1,029      | 1,029      | 1,029      | 1,029      | 1,029      |
| DataMB               | 50,000 | 50,000        | DataMB              | 200        | 400        | 600        | 2,048      | 2,048      | 2,048      | 2,048      | 2,048      | 2,048      |
| SMS Qty              |        |               | SMS Qty             | 200        | 400        | 600        | 2,000      | 2,000      | 2,000      | 2,000      | 2,000      | 2,000      |
| Voice Minutes        |        |               | Voice Minutes       | 200        | 400        | 600        | 2,000      | 2,000      | 2,000      | 2,000      | 2,000      | 2,000      |
| Subscription Fee N$  |    429 | 855           | Subscription Fee N$ | 107        | 215        | 319        | 639        | 639        | 639        | 639        | 639        | 639        |
| fee N$               |        |               | N$                  | 218        | 218        | 218        | 218        | 218        | 218        | 218        | 218        | 218        |
| Connection           |        |               | Connection fee      |            |            |            |            |            |            |            |            |            |
| Contract Period      |      4 |               | Contract Period     | 24         | 24         | 24         | 600 24     | 600 24     | 600 24     | 600 24     | 600 24     | 600 24     |
| TurboBoost TurbBoost |        | SmartShare 20 |                     | 100        | 200        | Smartshare |            |            |            |            |            |            |
|                      |        |               |                     |            |            |            | Smartshare | Smartshare | Smartshare | Smartshare | Smartshare | Smartshare |
| SmartShare           |        |               |                     |            |            |            |            |            |            |            |            |            |
|                      |        |               |                     |            | Smartshare |            |            |            |            |            |            |            |
|                      |        |               |                     | Smartshare |            |            |            |            |            |            |            |            |

Technology

Shared sim

Social

Data MB

SMS Qty

Voice

Subscription

Connection

Contract

Package rules Media Minutes Fee N$

fee N$

Period

90GB

SP0149

N/A

1 monly on

MTC One on One Please note that the full tariff submissions and reasons for approval can be obtained from the Authority.

**F. KISHI**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD DIRECTORS  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

No. 96

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING THE SUBMISSIONS OF INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENTS AND TARIFFS

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of Section 53(10) of the Communications Act (Act 8 of 2009) read with regulation 8(1) of the Regulations Regarding the Submission of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs, published in Government Gazette No. 4714, General Notice No. 126, dated 18 May 2011, hereby gives notice that Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd has filed a tariff with the Authority as set out in Schedule 1.

Any person may examine copies of the tariffs submitted at the head offices of the Authority during normal business hours and copies may be made on payment of a fee determined by the Authority. Copies are also available at www.cran.na where copies may be downloaded free of charge.

The public may submit in writing to the Authority written comments within fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette .

Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd may submit, in writing to the Authority, a response to any written comments within fourteen (14) days from the lapsing of the time to submit written submissions.

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submissions is made, if different and be clear and concise.

All written submissions and reply comments must be made either physically or electronically -

- (1) by hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (2) by post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek 9000;
- (3) by electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na;
- (4) by facsimile to the following facsimile number: +264 61 222790; and
- (5) by fax to e-mail to: 0886550852.

## F. K. MBANDEKA CHIEF EXECUCTIVE OFFICER COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY

No. 97

## SCHEDULE 1

## SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED NEW WIMAX SUPREME TARIFFS BY PARATUS TELECOMMUNICATIONS, COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

## BULK SMS BUNDLES

| SMS Bundle   | Service Cost (VAT exclusive)   |
|--------------|--------------------------------|
| 10 000       | N$ 2 000.00                    |

| SMS Top Up's   | Service Cost (VAT exclusive)   |
|----------------|--------------------------------|
| 1 000          | N$ 250.00                      |

- Once-off installation/connection fees: N$ 3 000.00 (Exc VAT)
- The SMS bundle will be valid for 30 days only. The Use It or Lose It principles will apply,
- Once the SMS bundles has been depleted, SMS top up bundle will be N$ 250.00 for a 1 000 SMS's,
- Top up SMS bundle purchased after depletion of package data is only valid for the remaining SMS bundle period.
- The bulk SMS service shall be available to National numbers only,

---

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING THE SUBMISSION OF INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENTS AND TARIFFS

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of Section 53(10) of the Communications Act (Act 8 of 2009) read with regulation 8(1) of the 'Regulations Regarding the Submission of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs', in Government Gazette No. 4714, General Notice No. 126, dated 18 May 2011, herewith gives notice that Telecom Namibia Limited has filed a tariff with the Authority as set out in Schedule 1.

Any person may examine copies of the tariffs submitted at the head offices of the Authority during normal business hours and copies may be made on payment of a fee determined by the Authority. Copies are also available at www.cran.na where copies may be downloaded free of charge.

The public may submit in writing to the Authority written comments within fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette .

Telecom Namibia Limited may submit, in writing to the Authority, a response to any written comments within fourteen (14) days from the lapsing of the time to submit written submissions.

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submissions is made, if different and be clear and concise.

All written submissions and reply comments must be made either physically or electronically -

- (1) by hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;

- (2) by post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek 9000;
- (3) by electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na;
- (4) by facsimile to the following facsimile number: +264 61 222790; and
- (5) by fax to e-mail to: 0886550852.

**F. K. MBANDEKA**  
CHIEF EXUCTIVE OFFICER  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

## SCHEDULE 1

## SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED NEW SPEEDLINK AND TN1 TARIFFS BY TELECOM NAMIBIA LIMITED, COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

## Speed Upgrade

| Current Speed (Kb/s)                           | New Speed (Kb/s)                               |
|------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------|
| Speedlink Home                                 | Speedlink Home                                 |
| 1024                                           | 2048                                           |
| 2048                                           | 4096                                           |
| 4096                                           | 6144                                           |
| 6144                                           | 8192 (New)                                     |
| Speedlink Business (Standard/Professional)     | Speedlink Business (Standard/Professional)     |
| 2048                                           | 4096                                           |
| 4096                                           | 6144                                           |
| 6144                                           | 8192                                           |
| 8192                                           | 10240                                          |
| 10240                                          | 10240 (Price reduction)                        |
| Speedlink Lite and TN1 (Standard/Professional) | Speedlink Lite and TN1 (Standard/Professional) |
| 1024                                           | 2048                                           |
| 2048                                           | 4096                                           |
| 4096                                           | 6144                                           |
| 6144                                           | 8192                                           |
| 8192                                           | 10240                                          |
| 10240                                          | 10240 (Price reduction)                        |

| ANNEX 1- TN1                                                                                    | ANNEX 1- TN1      | ANNEX 1- TN1                                                                                           | ANNEX 1- TN1             | ANNEX 1- TN1   |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------|----------------|
| TN1: Current                                                                                    |                   | TN1: After Upgrade                                                                                     | Monthly Rate (Vat Excl.) |                |
| tn1 Maxi 4096K (Own Device)                                                                     | 522.00            | tn1 Maxi 6144k (Own Device)                                                                            | 522.00                   |                |
| tn1 Maxi 4096K                                                                                  | 749.00            | tn1 Maxi 6144K                                                                                         | 749.00                   |                |
| tn1 Maxi 6144K                                                                                  | 1,328.00          | Maxi 8192K                                                                                             | 1,328.00                 |                |
| tn1 Maxi 8192K                                                                                  | 1,684.00          | tn1 tn1 Maxi 10240K                                                                                    | 1,684.00                 |                |
| tn1 Maxi 10240K                                                                                 | 1,906.00          | tn1 Maxi 10240K                                                                                        | 1,684.00                 |                |
| tn1 Maxi 4096K (With Static IP)                                                                 | 932.00            | tn1 Maxi 6144K (With Static IP)                                                                        | 932.00                   |                |
| tn1 Maxi 6144K (With Static IP)                                                                 | 1,511.00          | tn1 Maxi 8192K (With Static IP)                                                                        | 1,511.00                 |                |
| tn1 Maxi 8192K (With Static IP)                                                                 | 1,867.00          | tn1 Maxi 10240K (With Static IP)                                                                       | 1,867.00                 |                |
| tn1 Maxi 10240K (With Static IP)                                                                | 2,089.00          | tn1 Maxi 10240K (With Static IP)                                                                       | 1,867.00                 |                |
| tn1 Maxi Advanced 1 6144K - own device                                                          | 1,279.00 Migrate  | tn1 Maxi Advanced 1 8192K - own device                                                                 | 1,279.00                 |                |
| tn1 Maxi Advanced 1 6144K                                                                       | 1,409.00          | tn1 Maxi Advanced 1 8192K                                                                              | 1,409.00                 |                |
| tn1 Maxi Advanced 1 8192K                                                                       | 1,988.00          | tn1 Maxi Advanced 1 10240K                                                                             | 1,988.00                 |                |
| tn1 Maxi Advanced 1 10240K                                                                      | 2,344.00          | tn1 Maxi Advanced 1 10240K                                                                             | 1,988.00                 |                |
| tn1 Maxi Advanced 1 6144k (With Static IP)                                                      | 1,592.00          | tn1 Maxi Advanced 1 8192K (With Static IP)                                                             | 1,592.00                 |                |
| tn1 Maxi Advanced 1 8192k (With Static IP)                                                      | 2,171.00          | tn1 Maxi Advanced 1 10240K (With Static IP)                                                            | 2,171.00                 |                |
| tn1 Maxi Advanced 1 10240k (With Static IP)                                                     | 2,527.00          | tn1 Maxi Advanced 1 10240K (With Static IP)                                                            | 2,171.00                 |                |
| tn1 Maxi Essential 1 2048K(Own Device)                                                          | 730.00            | tn1 Maxi Essential 14096K(Own Device)                                                                  | 730.00                   |                |
| tn1 Maxi Essential 1 2048K                                                                      | 1,245.00          | tn1 Maxi Essential 1 4096K                                                                             | 1,245.00                 |                |
| tn1 Maxi Essential 2 2048K(Own Device)                                                          | 655.00            | tn1 Maxi Essential 2 4096K(Own Device)                                                                 | 655.00                   |                |
| tn1 Maxi Essential 2 2048K                                                                      | 1,049.00          | tn1 Maxi Essential 2 4096K                                                                             | 1,049.00                 |                |
| tn1 Maxi Plus 4096K (Own Device)                                                                | 1,029.00          | tn1 Maxi Plus 6144K (Own Device)                                                                       | 1,029.00                 |                |
| tn1 Maxi Plus 4096K                                                                             | 1,799.00          | tn1 Maxi Plus 6144K                                                                                    | 1,799.00                 |                |
| tn1 MaxiPlus 6144K                                                                              | 2,248.00          | tn1 MaxiPlus 8192K                                                                                     | 2,248.00                 |                |
| tn1 MaxiPlus 8192K                                                                              | 2,478.00          | tn1 MaxiPlus 10240K                                                                                    | 2,478.00                 |                |
| tn1 MaxiPlus 10240K                                                                             | 2,734.00          | tn1 MaxiPlus 10240K                                                                                    | 2,478.00                 |                |
| tn1 MaxiPlus 4096K (With Static IP)                                                             | 1,982.00          | tn1 MaxiPlus 6144K (With Static IP)                                                                    | 1,982.00                 |                |
| tn1 MaxiPlus 6144K (With Static IP)                                                             | 2,431.00          | tn1 MaxiPlus 8192K (With Static IP)                                                                    | 2,431.00                 |                |
| tn1 MaxiPlus 8192K (With Static IP)                                                             | 2,661.00          | tn1 MaxiPlus 10240K (With Static IP) tn1 MaxiPlus 10240K (With Static IP)                              | 2,661.00                 |                |
| tn1 MaxiPlus 10240K (With Static IP)                                                            | 2,917.00          | tn1 MaxiPlus Advanced 1 6144K                                                                          | 2,661.00                 |                |
| tn1 MaxiPlus Advanced 1 6144K                                                                   | 3,722.08          | tn1 MaxiPlus Advanced 1 8192K                                                                          | 3,309.00                 |                |
| tn1 MaxiPlus Advanced 1 4096K                                                                   | 3,309.00          |                                                                                                        | 3,722.08                 |                |
| tn1 MaxiPlus Advanced 1 8192K tn1 MaxiPlus Advanced 1 10240K                                    | 3,933.68 4,373.44 | tn1 MaxiPlus Advanced 1 10240K tn1 MaxiPlus Advanced 1 10240K                                          | 3,933.68 3,933.68        |                |
| tn1 MaxiPlus Advanced 1 4096K (With Static                                                      | 3,508.00          | tn1 MaxiPlus Advanced 1 6144K (With Static IP)                                                         | 3,508.00                 |                |
| tn1 MaxiPlus Advanced 1 6144K (With Static                                                      | 3,905.08          | tn1 MaxiPlus Advanced 1 8192K (With                                                                    | 3,905.08                 |                |
| IP) IP)                                                                                         | 4,116.68          | Static IP) tn1 MaxiPlus Advanced 1 10240K (With Static IP)                                             | 4,116.68                 |                |
| tn1 MaxiPlus Advanced 1 8192 K(With Static IP) tn1 MaxiPlus Advanced 1 10240K (With Static IP)  | 4,556.44          | tn1 MaxiPlus Advanced 1 10240K (With Static IP)                                                        | 4,116.68 1,999.00        |                |
| tn1 Maxi Advanced 2 6144K(Own Device) tn1 Maxi Advanced 2 6144K                                 | 1,999.00 2,179.00 | tn1 Maxi Advanced 2 8192K (Own Device) tn1 Maxi Advanced 2 8192K                                       | 2,179.00                 |                |
| tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 2048K (Own device)                                                     | 809.00            | tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 4096K (Own device)                                                            | 809.00                   |                |
| tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 2048K                                                                  | 1,099.00          | tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 4096K MaxiPlus Essential 2 6144K                                              | 1,099.00 1,512.08        |                |
| tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 4096K                                                                  | 1,512.08 1,723.68 | tn1 tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 8192K                                                                     | 1,723.68                 |                |
| tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 6144K                                                                  | 2,163.44          | MaxiPlus Essential 2 10240K                                                                            | 2,163.44                 |                |
| tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 8192K tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 10240K                                  | 2,670.36          | tn1 tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 10240K                                                                    | 2,163.44                 |                |
|                                                                                                 | 1,282.00          | tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 4096K (With Static                                                            | 1,282.00                 |                |
| tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 2048K (With Static IP) tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 4096K (With Static IP) | 1,695.08          | IP) tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 6144 (With Static IP) tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 8192K (With Static IP)     | 1,695.08                 |                |
|                                                                                                 |                   |                                                                                                        | 1,906.68                 |                |
| tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 6144K (With Static IP) tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 8192K (With Static IP) | 1,906.68 2,346.44 | tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 10240K (With                                                                  | 2,346.44                 |                |
| tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 10240K (With Static IP)                                                | 2,853.36          | Static IP) tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 10240K (With Static IP) tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 - 4096K Own device | 2,346.44                 |                |
| tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 - 2048K Own device                                                      | 789.00            | tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 4096K                                                                          | 789.00 1,149.00          |                |
| tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 2048K                                                                   | 1,149.00          | tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 6144K                                                                          |                          |                |
| tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 4096K                                                                   | 1,562.08          |                                                                                                        | 1,562.08                 |                |
| tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 6144K                                                                   | 1,773.68 2,213.44 | tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 8192K tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 10240K tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 10240K            | 1,773.68                 |                |
| tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 8192K                                                                   |                   |                                                                                                        | 2,213.44                 |                |
| tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 10240K                                                                  | 2,720.36          |                                                                                                        | 2,213.44                 |                |
| tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 2048K (With                                                             | 1,332.00          | tn1 MaxiPro Essential 14096K (With tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 6144K (With                                 | 1,332.00                 |                |
| Static IP) tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 4096K (With Static IP)                                       | 1,745.08          | Static IP) Static tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 8192K (With Static                                           | 1,745.08                 |                |
| tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 6144K (With Static IP)                                                  |                   | IP) IP)                                                                                                | 1,956.68                 |                |
| tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 8192K (With Static IP)                                                  | 1,956.68 2,396.44 | tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 10240K (With Static IP) tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 10240K (With Static IP)        | 2,396.44                 |                |
| tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 10240K (With Static IP)                                                 | 2,903.36          |                                                                                                        | 2,396.44                 |                |
| tn1 Family Circle 2048K tn1 Family Circle 2048K (Own Device)                                    | 2,249.00          | tn1 Family Circle 4096K tn1 Family Circle 4096K (Own Device)                                           | 2,249.00 1,940.00        |                |
|                                                                                                 | 1,940.00          |                                                                                                        |                          |                |

| TN1: Current                                                                                   |                   | TN1: After Upgrade                                                                             |                          |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------|
| DESCRIPTION                                                                                    | Rate (Vat Excl.)  | DESCRIPTION                                                                                    | Monthly Rate (Vat Excl.) |
| tn1 Maxi 4096K (Own Device)                                                                    | 522.00            | tn1 Maxi 6144k (Own Device)                                                                    | 522.00                   |
| tn1 Maxi 4096K                                                                                 | 749.00            | tn1 Maxi 6144K                                                                                 | 749.00                   |
| tn1 Maxi 6144K                                                                                 | 1,328.00          | tn1 Maxi 8192K                                                                                 | 1,328.00                 |
| tn1 Maxi 8192K                                                                                 | 1,684.00          | tn1 Maxi 10240K                                                                                | 1,684.00                 |
| tn1 Maxi 10240K                                                                                | 1,906.00          | tn1 Maxi 10240K                                                                                | 1,684.00                 |
| tn1 Maxi 4096K (With Static IP)                                                                | 932.00            | tn1 Maxi 6144K (With Static IP)                                                                | 932.00                   |
| tn1 Maxi 6144K (With Static IP)                                                                | 1,511.00          | tn1 Maxi 8192K (With Static IP)                                                                | 1,511.00                 |
| tn1 Maxi 8192K (With Static IP)                                                                | 1,867.00          | tn1 Maxi 10240K (With Static IP)                                                               | 1,867.00                 |
| tn1 Maxi 10240K (With Static IP)                                                               | 2,089.00          | tn1 Maxi 10240K (With Static IP)                                                               | 1,867.00                 |
| tn1 Maxi Advanced 1 6144K - own device                                                         | 1,279.00          | tn1 Maxi Advanced 1 8192K - own device                                                         | 1,279.00                 |
| tn1 Maxi Advanced 1 6144K                                                                      | 1,409.00          | tn1 Maxi Advanced 1 8192K                                                                      | 1,409.00                 |
| tn1 Maxi Advanced 1 8192K                                                                      | 1,988.00          | tn1 Maxi Advanced 1 10240K                                                                     | 1,988.00                 |
| tn1 Maxi Advanced 1 10240K                                                                     | 2,344.00          | tn1 Maxi Advanced 1 10240K                                                                     | 1,988.00                 |
| tn1 Maxi Advanced 1 6144k (With Static IP)                                                     | 1,592.00          | tn1 Maxi Advanced 1 8192K (With Static IP)                                                     | 1,592.00                 |
| tn1 Maxi Advanced 1 8192k (With Static IP)                                                     | 2,171.00          | tn1 Maxi Advanced 1 10240K (With Static IP)                                                    | 2,171.00                 |
| tn1 Maxi Advanced 1 10240k (With Static IP)                                                    | 2,527.00          | tn1 Maxi Advanced 1 10240K (With Static IP)                                                    | 2,171.00                 |
| tn1 Maxi Essential 1 2048K(Own Device)                                                         | 730.00            | tn1 Maxi Essential 14096K(Own Device)                                                          | 730.00                   |
| tn1 Maxi Essential 1 2048K                                                                     | 1,245.00          | tn1 Maxi Essential 1 4096K                                                                     | 1,245.00                 |
| tn1 Maxi Essential 2 2048K(Own Device)                                                         | 655.00            | tn1 Maxi Essential 2 4096K(Own Device)                                                         | 655.00                   |
| tn1 Maxi Essential 2 2048K                                                                     | 1,049.00          | tn1 Maxi Essential 2 4096K                                                                     | 1,049.00 1,029.00        |
| tn1 Maxi Plus 4096K (Own Device) tn1 Maxi Plus 4096K                                           | 1,029.00          | tn1 Maxi Plus 6144K (Own Device) tn1 Maxi Plus 6144K                                           | 1,799.00                 |
| tn1 MaxiPlus 6144K                                                                             | 1,799.00          |                                                                                                | 2,248.00                 |
| tn1 MaxiPlus 8192K                                                                             | 2,248.00          | tn1 MaxiPlus 8192K                                                                             | 2,478.00                 |
|                                                                                                | 2,478.00          | tn1 MaxiPlus 10240K                                                                            |                          |
| tn1 MaxiPlus 4096K (With                                                                       | 1,982.00          | tn1 MaxiPlus 6144K (With Static IP)                                                            | 1,982.00                 |
| Static IP) tn1 MaxiPlus 6144K (With Static IP)                                                 | 2,431.00          | tn1 MaxiPlus 8192K (With Static IP)                                                            | 2,431.00                 |
| tn1 MaxiPlus 8192K (With Static IP)                                                            | 2,661.00          | tn1 MaxiPlus 10240K (With Static IP)                                                           | 2,661.00                 |
| tn1 MaxiPlus 10240K (With Static IP)                                                           | 2,917.00          | tn1 MaxiPlus 10240K (With Static IP)                                                           | 2,661.00                 |
| tn1 MaxiPlus Advanced 1 4096K                                                                  | 3,309.00          | tn1 MaxiPlus Advanced 1 6144K                                                                  | 3,309.00                 |
| tn1 MaxiPlus Advanced 1 6144K                                                                  | 3,722.08          | tn1 MaxiPlus Advanced 1 8192K                                                                  | 3,722.08 3,933.68        |
| tn1 MaxiPlus Advanced 1 8192K                                                                  | 3,933.68          | tn1 MaxiPlus Advanced 1 10240K                                                                 |                          |
| tn1 MaxiPlus Advanced 1 10240K                                                                 | 4,373.44          | tn1 MaxiPlus Advanced 1 10240K                                                                 | 3,933.68 3,508.00        |
| tn1 MaxiPlus Advanced 1 4096K (With Static tn1 MaxiPlus Advanced 1 6144K (With Static          | 3,508.00          | tn1 MaxiPlus Advanced 1 6144K (With Static tn1 MaxiPlus Advanced 1 8192K (With Static          |                          |
| IP)                                                                                            |                   | IP) IP)                                                                                        | 3,905.08                 |
| IP)                                                                                            | 3,905.08          | tn1 MaxiPlus Advanced 1 10240K (With Static IP)                                                | 4,116.68                 |
| tn1 MaxiPlus Advanced 1 8192 K(With Static IP) tn1 MaxiPlus Advanced 1 10240K (With Static IP) | 4,116.68 4,556.44 | tn1 MaxiPlus Advanced 1 10240K (With Static IP)                                                | 4,116.68 1,999.00        |
| tn1 Maxi Advanced 2 6144K(Own Device) tn1 Maxi Advanced 2 6144K                                | 1,999.00          | tn1 Maxi Advanced 2 8192K (Own Device) tn1 Maxi Advanced 2 8192K                               | 2,179.00                 |
|                                                                                                | 2,179.00          |                                                                                                | 809.00                   |
| tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 2048K (Own device)                                                    | 809.00            | tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 4096K (Own device)                                                    | 1,099.00                 |
| tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 2048K                                                                 | 1,099.00 1,512.08 | tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 4096K MaxiPlus Essential 2 6144K                                      | 1,512.08                 |
| tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 4096K                                                                 |                   | tn1 tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 8192K                                                             | 1,723.68                 |
| tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 6144K tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 8192K                                  | 1,723.68 2,163.44 | MaxiPlus Essential 2 10240K                                                                    | 2,163.44                 |
|                                                                                                |                   |                                                                                                | 2,163.44                 |
| tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 10240K                                                                | 2,670.36          | tn1 tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 10240K                                                            |                          |
| tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 2048K (With Static                                                    | 1,282.00          | tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 4096K (With Static tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 6144 (With Static         | 1,282.00                 |
| IP) tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 4096K (With Static IP)                                            | 1,695.08          | IP) IP)                                                                                        | 1,695.08 1,906.68        |
| tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 6144K (With Static IP)                                                | 1,906.68          | tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 8192K (With Static IP)                                                |                          |
| tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 8192K (With Static IP)                                                | 2,346.44          | tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 10240K (With Static                                                   | 2,346.44                 |
| tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 10240K (With Static IP)                                               | 2,853.36          | IP) tn1 MaxiPlus Essential 2 10240K (With Static IP)                                           | 2,346.44                 |
| tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 - 2048K Own device                                                     | 789.00 1,149.00   | tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 - 4096K Own device tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 4096K                       | 789.00 1,149.00          |
| tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 2048K                                                                  | 1,562.08          | tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 6144K                                                                  | 1,562.08                 |
| tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 4096K                                                                  |                   |                                                                                                |                          |
| tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 6144K tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 8192K                                    | 1,773.68 2,213.44 | tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 8192K tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 10240K                                   | 1,773.68 2,213.44        |
|                                                                                                |                   | tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 10240K                                                                 |                          |
| tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 10240K tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 2048K                                   | 2,720.36 1,332.00 | tn1 MaxiPro Essential 14096K (With                                                             | 2,213.44 1,332.00        |
| (With                                                                                          |                   | tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 6144K (With                                                            |                          |
| Static IP) tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 4096K (With Static                                          |                   | Static IP) Static                                                                              | 1,745.08                 |
| IP) tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 6144K (With Static IP)                                             | 1,745.08 1,956.68 | IP) tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 8192K (With Static IP) tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 10240K (With Static | 1,956.68                 |
| tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 8192K (With Static IP)                                                 | 2,396.44          | IP) tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 10240K (With Static IP)                                            | 2,396.44                 |
| tn1 MaxiPro Essential 1 10240K (With Static IP)                                                | 2,903.36          |                                                                                                | 2,396.44                 |
| tn1 Family Circle 2048K tn1 Family Circle 2048K (Own Device)                                   | 2,249.00          | tn1 Family Circle 4096K tn1 Family Circle 4096K (Own Device)                                   | 2,249.00 1,940.00        |
|                                                                                                | 1,940.00          |                                                                                                |                          |

---

No. 98

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING THE SUBMISSIONS OF INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENTS AND TARIFFS

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of Section 53(10) of the Communications Act (Act 8 of 2009) read with regulation 8(1) of the 'Regulations Regarding the Submission of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs', in Government Gazette No. 4714, General Notice No. 126, dated 18 May 2011, herewith gives notice that Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd has filed tariffs with the Authority as set out in Schedule 1.

Any person may examine copies of the tariffs submitted at the head offices of the Authority during normal business hours and copies may be made on payment of a fee determined by the Authority. Copies are also available at www.cran.na where copies may be downloaded free of charge.

The public may submit in writing to the Authority written comments within fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette .

Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd may submit, in writing to the Authority, a response to any written comments within fourteen (14) days from the lapsing of the time to submit written submissions.

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submissions is made, if different and be clear and concise.

All written submissions and reply comments must be made either physically or electronically -

- (1) by hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (2) by post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek 9000;
- (3) by electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na;
- (4) by facsimile to the following facsimile number: +264 61 222790; and
- (5) by fax to e-mail to: 0886550852.

**F. K. MBANDEKA**  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

No. 99

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING THE SUBMISSIONS OF INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENTS AND TARIFFS

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of Section 53(10) of the Communications Act (Act 8 of 2009) read with regulation 8(1) of the 'Regulations Regarding the Submission of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs', in Government Gazette No. 4714, Notice No. 126, dated 18 May 2011, herewith gives notice that Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd has filed a tariff with the Authority as set out in Schedule 1.

Any person may examine copies of the tariffs submitted at the head offices of the Authority during normal business hours and copies may be made on payment of a fee determined by the Authority.

## SCHEDULE 1

## SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED TARIFFS BY PARATUS TELECOMMUNICATIONS (PTY) LTD COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

The following are the proposed tariffs as submitted by Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd:

## FLIX PACKAGES TARIFFS

| GB              | LTE FLIX   | WIMAX FLIX   | F I B E R FLIX   | Reseller Rates                                               |
|-----------------|------------|--------------|------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------|
| 20GB/80GB Ratio | N$ 599.00  | N$ 599.00    | N$ 699.00        | 1. Wimax - N$ 543.00 2. LTE - N$ 543.00 3. Fiber - N$ 632.00 |

## Installation/Connection fees for Flix packages is dependent on the technology:

1. WIMAX - N$ 1,250.00 excluding VAT
2. Fiber - N$ 2,500.00 excluding VAT
3. LTE - N$ 285.00 excluding VAT

## Terms and Conditions:

1. Prices are quoted in Namibian Dollars (N$).
2. Pricing is based on a 24-month contract and excludes 15% VAT.
3. The Flix installation prices includes the media player device.
4. The ratio of the package is 20GB for normal data usage and 80GB for streaming.
5. Package data will not roll over to the following month. The use It or Lose It principle will apply.
6. Once cap has been reached top ups can be done at N$15 per GB.
7. Top up bundles purchased after depletion of package data is valid for 30 days.

The subscriber will be responsible for their own content providers monthly subscription, this is not included in the Flix package.

Please note that the full tariff submission including the terms and conditions and the remedies available to the consumers can be obtained from the Authority

---

Copies are also available at www.cran.na where copies may be downloaded free of charge.

The public may submit in writing to the Authority written comments within fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette .

Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd may submit, in writing to the Authority, a response to any written comments within fourteen (14) days from the lapsing of the time to submit written submissions.

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submissions is made, if different and be clear and concise.

All written submissions and reply comments must be made either physically or electronically -

- (1) by hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (2) by post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek 9000;
- (3) by electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na;
- (4) by facsimile to the following facsimile number: +264 61 222790; and
- (5) by fax to e-mail to: 0886550852.

## F. K. MBANDEKA CHIEF EXECUCTIVE OFFICER COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

## SCHEDULE 1

## SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED NEW WIMAX SUPREME TARIFFS BY PARATUS TELECOMMUNICATIONS, COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

## WIMAX PACKAGES

| Name             | Download up to   | CAPLimit   |   Cost N$ |   Reseller N$ |   Retail N$ |
|------------------|------------------|------------|-----------|---------------|-------------|
| Supreme 30       | 8 Mbps           | 30Gb       |    285.00 |        355.00 |      425.00 |
| Supreme 50       | 8 Mbps           | 50Gb       |    335.00 |        460.00 |      585.00 |
| Supreme Uncapped | 8 Mbps           | Uncapped   |    475.00 |        605.00 |      730.00 |

- Pricing is based on a 24-month contract and excludes 15% VAT,
- The Wimax installation prices includes the pole, bracket and cable,
- The Wimax installation includes the CPE,
- Package data will not roll over to the following month. The use it or lose it principle will apply,
- Top up bundles purchased after depletion of packages data is valid for 30 days,
- Installation for Wimax packages is N$ 1,250.00 excluding VAT.

---

No. 100

NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS PRESCRIBING THE NATIONAL NUMBERING PLAN FOR USE IN THE PROVISION OF̧ TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES IN THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA, NUMBERING LICENCE FEE AND PROCEDURES FOR NUMBER LICENCES: COMMUINCATIONS ACT, 2009

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of Regulation 22(1) of the Regulations regarding the National Numbering Plan for Namibia for use in the provision of Telecommunications Services in the Republic of Namibia, Numbering Licence Fees and Procedures for Number Licences as published in Government Gazette No: 5983, General Notice No. 97 dated 1 April 2016, herewith gives notice that Mobile Telecommunications Limited submitted an application for Number Licence to the Authority:

| Applicant                           | Applicants' place of incorporation   | Percentage of Stock owned by Namibian Citizens or Namibian Companies controlled by Namibian Citizens   | Number Category                | Number of Blocks considered to be awarded by the Authority   | Description of geographic area   | Service to be provided using number applied for   |
|-------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------|
| Mobile Telecommunications Limited | Namibian                             | 100%                                                                                                   | Electronic Communications (81) | 1 block (100,̋000 numbers) 0811100000- 0811199999          | National                           | Electronic Communications                         |

The public may submit comments in writing to the Authority within a period of fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette.

The applicant may submit written reply comments within fourteen (14) days from the due date of the written public comments.

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submission is made, if different and be clear and concise.

All written submissions and reply comments must be made either physically or electronically -

- (1) By hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (2) By post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek 9000;
- (3) By electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na;
- (4) By facsimile to the following facsimile number: +264 61 222790; or
- (5) By fax to e-mail to: 088642748.

**F. K. MBANDEKA**  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

---

No. 101

NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS PRESCRIBING THE NATIONAL NUMBERING PLAN FOR USE IN THE PROVISION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES IN THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA, NUMBERING LICENCE FEE AND PROCEDURES FOR NUMBER LICENCES: COMMUINCATIONS ACT, 2009

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of Regulation 22(1) of the Regulations regarding the National Numbering Plan for Namibia for use in the provision of Telecommunications Services in the Republic of Namibia, Numbering Licence Fees and Procedures for Number Licences as published in Government Gazette No: 5983, General Notice No. 97 dated 1 April 2016, herewith gives notice that Telecom Namibia Limited submitted an application for Number Licence to the Authority:

| Applicant               | Applicants' place of incorporation   | Percentage of Stock owned by Namibian Citizens or Namibian Companies controlled by Namibian Citizens   | Number Category   |   FreeFone numbers applied for |   FreeFone to be considered for assignment | Description of geographic area   | Service to be provided using number applied for   |
|-------------------------|--------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------|--------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|----------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------|
| Telecom Namibia Limited | Namibian                             | 100%                                                                                                   | FreeFone          |                     0800111321 |                                 0800111321 | National                         | FreeFone                                          |

The public may submit comments in writing to the Authority within a period of fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette.

The applicant may submit written reply comments within fourteen (14) days from the due date of the written public comments.

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submission is made, if different and be clear and concise.

All written submissions and reply comments must be made either physically or electronically -

- (1) By hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (2) By post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek 9000;
- (3) By electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na;
- (4) By facsimile to the following facsimile number: +264 61 222790; or

- (5) By fax to e-mail to: 088642748.

**F. K. MBANDEKA**  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

## \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_