
N$6.00

No. 20

NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING LICENSING PROCEDURES FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND BROADCASTING SERVICE LICENCES AND SPECTRUM USE LICENCES

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of Regulation 19(1) of the Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences and Spectrum Use Licences, published in Government Gazette No. 4785, General Notice No. 272, dated 29 August 2011 (as amended), hereby gives notice that it has made the following decisions:

- a) The Authority resolved to grant Capricorn Connect (Pty) Ltd an extension of twelve (12) months from the date of this Notice, to commence providing telecommunications services in respect of its Class Electronic Telecommunications Service Licence (ECS).

## GOVERNMENT GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA

WINDHOEK - 14 February 2019

## CONTENTS

No. 6843

Page

| GENERAL NOTICES   | GENERAL NOTICES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
|-------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| No. 20            | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences and Spectrum Use Licences      |
| No. 21            | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences and Spectrum Use Licences      |
| No. 22            | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of Section 53 (7) of the Communications Act, read with the Regulations Regarding the Submissions of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs   |

---

## General Notices

## COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

- b) The Authority resolved to approve the transfer of control of the Class Comprehensive Telecommunications Service Licence (ECNS/ECS) and all Spectrum Use Licences issued to Mobile Telecommunications Limited from Samba Luxco S.a.r.l. or its wholly owned subsidiary, Samba Dutchco. B.V to Namibia Post and Telecom Holdings (NPTH). This decision is, notwithstanding the date of this notice, effective from 5 March 2018.

In terms of section 33(3) and (4) the approval is subject to the following conditions:

- i) That 20% of the ownership in Mobile Telecommunications Limited must be acquired by Government Institution Pension Fund, (as indicated in the letter dated 20 February 2018 submitted to the Authority) or by a private local investor/s subject to sections 35 and 46 of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009);
2. ii) That Mobile Telecommunications Limited must be listed on the Namibian Stock Exchange within a period of 12 months from the date that this resolution is communicated to the petitioner - of which 29% of the shares should be allocated as free float and sold to private local investors subject to sections 35 and 46 of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009);
3. iii) That Mobile Telecommunications Limited must provide the Authority with bimonthly (every second month) reports on the progress made in the implementation of this resolution;
4. iv) That these conditions are licence conditions imposed on Mobile Telecommunications Limited; and
- v) In the event that Mobile Telecommunications Limited fails to comply with these licence conditions the Authority will enforce compliance in terms of sections 114 116 of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009).

Kindly take note that the full reasons for the decisions can be requested from the Authority.

**F. KISHI**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA
---

No. 21

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING LICENSING PROCEDURES FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND BROADCASTING SERVICE LICENCES AND SPECTRUM USE LICENCES

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of sections 81(5) of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009) and regulation 22(8) of the Regulations Prescribing the National Numbering Plan for Use in the Provision of Telecommunications Services in the Republic of Namibia, Numbering Licence Fees and Procedures for Number Licences, published in Government Gazette No. 5983, General Notice No. 97, dated 1 April 2016, (as amended), hereby gives notice that it has awarded the following number licences to Telecom Namibia Limited - Kindly take note that the full reasons for the decisions can be requested from the Authority. Further, in terms of section 31 of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009), the Authority may, on its own motion or on a petition filed by an aggrieved party to any proceedings, reconsider any order or decision that it has made, within 90 days from the date of making that decision or issuing that order.

|   Leading Digit | Use                                                                    | Range         |
|-----------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|
|               1 | Avbob Namibia (Pty) Ltd City of Windhoek Khomasdal Neighbourhood Watch | 166 1211 1911 |

**F. KISHI**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

## No. 22 2019

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF SECTION 53 (7) OF THE COMMUNICATIONS ACT READ WITH THE REGULATIONS REGARDING THE SUBMISSIONS OF INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENTS AND TARIFFS

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms section 53(1) and (7) of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009) read with regulation 8 of the Regulations Regarding the Submission of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs, published in Government Gazette No. 4714, Notice No. 126, dated 18 May 2011, hereby gives notice that it has approved the additional YUR SAT tariffs packages as submitted by Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd . The tariffs came into force and effect on 8 December 2018 , notwithstanding the date of publication in the Government Gazette .

Kindly note that the full tariff submission and reasons for approval can be obtained from the Authority.

**F. KISHI**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---