
No. 88

NOTICE OF WITHDRAWAL OF REGULATIONS RELATING TO ISSUING OF LICENCES, CATEGORIES AND LICENCING PROCEDURES FOR BROADCASTING SERVICE LICENCES AND THE REGULATIONS PRESCRIBING LICENCE CATEGORIES AND LICENSING PROCEDURES FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE LICENCES: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia herewith gives notice in terms of regulation 11(b) of the Regulations Regarding Rule-making Procedures as published in the Government Gazette No. 4630 General Notice No. 334 dated 17 December 2010 that it has withdrawn Regulations Relating to Issuing of Licences, Categories and Licensing Procedures for Broadcasting Service Licences and the Regulations Prescribing Licence Categories and Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications Service Licences as published in the Government Gazette No. 7750, General Notice No. 67 and 68 dated 17 February 2022.

The reason for withdrawal of the said Regulations is that the Regulations were published erroneously.

The Authority will initiate new rule making proceedings and will issue a new notice of intention to make regulations in future.

**H. M. GAOMAB II**  
CHAIRPERSON  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

## BANK OF NAMIBIA

No. 89

## STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES AT 31 JANUARY 2022

|                          | 31-01-2022 N$   | 31-12-2021 N$   |
|--------------------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| ASSETS                   |                 |                 |
| External:                |                 |                 |
| Rand Cash                | 99 772 485      | 70 013 739      |
| IMF - SOR Holdings       | 3 967 534 603   | 3 972 337 831   |
| IMF - Quota Subscription | 7 848 992 750   | 7 848 992 750   |
| Investments              |                 |                 |
| Rand Currency            | 26 209 962 502  | 26 565 772 235  |
| Other Currencies         | 12 979 801 420  | 13 229 112 385  |
| Interest Accrued         | 34 670 299      | 31 325 161      |
| Domestic:                |                 |                 |
| USO Stock                | 181 685         | 185 406         |
| Currency Inventory       | 87 781 428      | 90 100 094      |
| Repurchase Agreements    | 1 529 035 680   | -               |

## COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA