

## GOVERNMENT GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA

| N$6.00 WINDHOEK - 21 May 2021   | N$6.00 WINDHOEK - 21 May 2021                                                                                                                                                                                                | No. 7539        |
|---------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------|
| GENERALNOTICES No. 194          | Communication Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations Regarding the Submissions of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs   | 1               |
| No. 195                         | Communication Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations Regarding the Submissions of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs   | 2               |
| No. 196                         | Communication Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice of Intention to Set Out the Frequency Channeling Plan for the Spectrum Bands 694-790 Mhz         | 4               |
| General Notices                 | General Notices                                                                                                                                                                                                              | General Notices |

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING THE SUBMISSIONS OF INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENTS AND TARIFFS

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of Section 53(10) of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009) read with regulation 8(1) of the 'Regulations Regarding the Submission of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs', in Government Gazette No. 4714, General Notice No. 126, dated 18 May 2011, herewith gives notice that MWireless ( Pty) Ltd t/a Africa Online has filed a tariff with the Authority as set out in Schedule 1.

Any person may examine copies of the tariffs submitted at the head offices of the Authority during normal business hours and copies may be made on payment of a fee determined by the Authority. Copies are also available at www.cran.na where copies may be downloaded free of charge.

The public may submit in writing to the Authority written comments within fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this Notice in the Gazette .

MWireless ( Pty) Ltd t/a Africa Online may submit, in writing to the Authority, a response to any written comments within fourteen (14) days from the lapsing of the time to submit written submissions.

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submissions is made, if different and be clear and concise.

All written submissions and reply comments must be made either physically or electronically -

- (1) by hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (2) by post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek 9000;
- (3) by electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na;
- (4) by facsimile to the following facsimile number: +264 61 222790; and
- (5) by fax to e-mail to: 0886550852.

**E. NGHIKEMBUA**  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

## SCHEDULE 1

## SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED FIBRE RATES BY MWIRELESS ( PTY) LTD T/A AFRICA ONLINE (PTY) LTD: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

Table 1: Fibre Products

| Product Name   |   Mbps | Reseller (NAD)   | AOLSelling (NAD)   | Installation fee (NAD)   |
|----------------|--------|------------------|--------------------|--------------------------|
| NawaFi 15      |     15 | 805.00           | 875.00             | 2 500.00                 |
| NawaFi 30      |     30 | 1 121.48         | 1 219.00           | 2 500.00                 |
| NawaFi 50      |     50 | 2 345.08         | 2 549.00           | 2 500.00                 |
| NawaFi 75      |     75 | 3 449.08         | 3 749.00           | 2 500.00                 |
| NawaFi 100     |    100 | 4 415.08         | 4 799.00           | 2 500.00                 |
| OptiFi 25      |     25 | 1 360.68         | 1 479.00           | 3 500.00                 |
| OptiFi 45      |     45 | 2 299.08         | 2 499.00           | 3 500.00                 |
| OptiFi 65      |     65 | 3 219.08         | 3 499.00           | 3 500.00                 |
| OptiFi 85      |     85 | 5 427.08         | 5 899.00           | 3 500.00                 |
| OptiFi 100     |    100 | 6 439.08         | 6 999.00           | 3 500.00                 |

---

## COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

No. 195

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING THE SUBMISSIONS OF INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENTS AND TARIFFS

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of Section 53(10) of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009) read with regulation 8(1) of the 'Regulations Regarding the Submission of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs', in Government Gazette No. 4714, General Notice No. 126, dated 18 May 2011, herewith gives notice that Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd has filed a tariff with the Authority as set out in Schedule 1.

Any person may examine copies of the tariffs submitted at the head offices of the Authority during normal business hours and copies may be made on payment of a fee determined by the Authority. Copies are also available at www.cran.na where copies may be downloaded free of charge.

The public may submit in writing to the Authority written comments within fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this Notice in the Gazette .

Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd may submit, in writing to the Authority, a response to any written comments within fourteen (14) days from the lapsing of the time to submit written submissions.

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submissions is made, if different and be clear and concise.

All written submissions and reply comments must be made either physically or electronically -

- (1) by hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (2) by post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek 9000;
- (3) by electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na;
- (4) by facsimile to the following facsimile number: +264 61 222790; and
- (5) by fax to e-mail to: 0886550852.

## E. NGHIKEMBUA CHIEF EXECUCTIVE OFFICER COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

## SCHEDULE 1

## SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED NEW FTTX EASY FIBER TARIFFS BY PARATUS TELECOMMUNICATIONS: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

Table 1: FTTx: Easy Fiber

| Product name   | Download up to   | CAPLimit   |   Reseller (NAD) |   Retail (NAD) |
|----------------|------------------|------------|------------------|----------------|
| Easy Fiber     | 100Mbps          | 50 GB      |           580.00 |         599.00 |

## Table 2: Installation Fee

| 12 Months contract (Standard)   | NAD 2 500   |
|---------------------------------|-------------|
| 24 Months contract (Promotion)  | NAD 1 500   |
| 36 Months contract (Promotion)  | NAD 500     |

- Pricing is based on a 24-month contract and excludes 15% VAT,
- Standard fair usage will apply. This will be made available to customers upon their request.

---

No. 196

## NOTICE OF INTENTION TO SET OUT THE FREQUENCY CHANNELING PLAN FOR THE SPECTRUM BANDS 694-790 MHz

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia in terms of section 100 of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009) and the Regulations regarding Rule-Making Procedures published in Government Gazette No. 4630, General Notice No. 334 dated 17 December 2010 publishes this notice of intention to make 'Notice of Intention to set out the Frequency Channeling Plan for the Spectrum Bands 694-790 MHz which contains the following:

- a) A concise statement of the reasons and purpose for the proposed Frequency Channeling Plan as set out in Schedule 1.
- b) The proposed Frequency Channeling Plan for the Spectrum Band 694-790 MHz as set out in Schedule 2;

The public may make oral submissions on the proposed Frequency Channeling Plan to the Authority, at a time, date and place notified by the Authority.

The public may also make written submission to the Authority within thirty (30) days from the date of publication of this Notice in the Gazette , in the manner set out below for making of written submissions.

All written submission must -

- a) contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submission is made if different; and
- b) be clear and concise.

All written submissions must be send or submitted in any of the following manners -

- a) by hand to the head office of the Authority, namely Communications House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- b) by post to the head office of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek, 9000;
- c) by electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na;
- d) by facsimile to the following facsimile number: +264 61 222790; and
- e) by fax-to-email to: 0886550852.

**H. M. GAOMAB II**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

## SCHEDULE 1 CONCISE STATEMENT OF PURPOSE

1. The Frequency Channelling Plan sets out how the spectrum bands 694 - 790 MHz will be assigned. This is done in compliance with the Final Acts of ITU WRC-19. At international level, the planning of spectrum is the responsibility of the ITU, in particular the ITU's Radiocommunications Bureau (ITU-R). The mission of the ITU-R is to ensure rational, equitable, efficient and economical use of the radio frequency spectrum and to adopt recommendations for member states.
2. Nationally, the Authority is vested with the control, planning, administration, management and licensing of radio spectrum in terms of Section 99 of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009). Further, in terms of Section 99, the Authority is required to comply with the applicable standards and requirements of the International Telecommunications Union (ITU) and its Radio Regulations.
3. Section 100 of the Communications Act, 2009 deals specifically with the prescription of a frequency band plan setting out how radio spectrum may be used to ensure utilisation in an orderly, efficient and effective manner, to reduce congestion and interference, to allow for the introduction of new services and to permit as many licensees providing services as possible. A frequency channeling plan is complementary to the spectrum band plan.

## PROPOSED FREQUENCY CHANNELING PLAN FOR THE SPECTRUM BANDS 694-790 MHz: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

In terms of section 100 of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009) the Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia -

- (a) makes the Frequency Channeling Plan as set out in the Schedule;
- (b) repeal the Frequency Channeling Plan for the Spectrum Band 694-790 MHz as published in Government Gazette No. 6160, General Notice No. 423 on 28 October 2016.

**H. M. GAOMAB II**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

## SCHEDULE

## FREQUENCY CHANNELING PLAN FOR THE SPECTRUM BAND 694-790 MHz

## Background

1. The following principles have been considered to define the IMT frequency arrangement:
- (a) To facilitate in the implementation of mobile broadband communications for robust and reliable mission critical emergency services for Public Protection and Disaster Relief (PPDR) in accordance with Resolution 646 (WRC-19).
- (b) Spectrum efficiency and high level of flexibility in order to adapt to national circumstances as well as to meet the changing need and demand for capacity in time and geography;
- (c) Protection of broadcasting services below 694 MHz;

- (d) Use of a 5 MHz block approach which is in line with the foreseen mobile systems to be used in the 700 MHz spectrum band; and
- (e) Facilitation of roaming and cross-border coordination.
2. Recommendation ITU-R M.1036-6 as approved by the ITU Radio Assembly provides as follows -

'International Mobile Telecommunications (IMT) encompasses IMT-2020, IMT-2000 and IMT-Advanced collectively.

Key features of IMT-2000 and IMT-Advanced are contained in Recommendation ITU-R M.1645 and ITU-R M-1822. Frequency aspects and unwanted emission parameters are contained in Recommendations ITU-R M.1580, IT-R M.1581, ITU-R M.2070 and ITU-R M.2071.'

## Definitions

1. In these regulations, a word or expression to which a meaning is assigned in the Act or the Regulations has the same meaning, and unless the context otherwise indicates -
2. 'Act' means the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009)
3. 'IMT' means International Mobile Telecommunications
4. 'ITU' means International Telecommunications Union
5. 'WRC' means ITU World Radio Conference.

## Purpose

2. To set out the Frequency Channeling plan for the provision of IMT services in the spectrum bands 694-790 MHz.

## Frequency channeling arrangement for the 694-790 MHz spectrum band

3. As graphically depicted below, 2x 30 MHz (6 blocks of 5 MHz each) FDD spectrum will be allocated for IMT services. This frequency arrangement was approved by the ITU Radio Assembly as contained in ITU-R M.1036-6 and is shown in Figure 1.
4. The allocation for PPDR services in accordance with Resolution 646 (WRC-19) and the SADC Framework for Harmonisation of Radio Frequency Spectrum for Public Protection and Disaster Relief (PPDR) -
- a. 698 - 703 MHz for Uplink and 753 - 758 MHz for downlink (2x5 MHz); and
- b. 733 -736 MHz uplink and 788 - 791 MHz downlink (2x3 MHz) is shown in Figure 2 below:

Figure 1

Avenue Figure 2

| 698- 703        | 703- 708                     | 708- 713                     | 713- 718                     | 718- 723                     | 723- 728                     | 728- 733                     | 733- 736        | 736- 753   | 753- 758           | 758- 763                   | 763- 768                   | 768- 773                   | 773- 778                   | 778- 783                   | 783- 788                   | 788- 791           |
|-----------------|------------------------------|------------------------------|------------------------------|------------------------------|------------------------------|------------------------------|-----------------|------------|--------------------|----------------------------|----------------------------|----------------------------|----------------------------|----------------------------|----------------------------|--------------------|
| PPDR a) up-link | b) IMT uplink (MFCN)         | b) IMT uplink (MFCN)         | b) IMT uplink (MFCN)         | b) IMT uplink (MFCN)         | b) IMT uplink (MFCN)         | b) IMT uplink (MFCN)         | PPDR c) up-link | …          | PPDR a) downlink | b) IMT downlink (MFCN)     | b) IMT downlink (MFCN)     | b) IMT downlink (MFCN)     | b) IMT downlink (MFCN)     | b) IMT downlink (MFCN)     | b) IMT downlink (MFCN)     | PPDR c) downlink |
| 5 MHz           | 30 MHz (6 blocks of 5 MHz) 3 | 30 MHz (6 blocks of 5 MHz) 3 | 30 MHz (6 blocks of 5 MHz) 3 | 30 MHz (6 blocks of 5 MHz) 3 | 30 MHz (6 blocks of 5 MHz) 3 | 30 MHz (6 blocks of 5 MHz) 3 | MHz             |            | 5 MHz              | 30 MHz (6 blocks of 5 MHz) | 30 MHz (6 blocks of 5 MHz) | 30 MHz (6 blocks of 5 MHz) | 30 MHz (6 blocks of 5 MHz) | 30 MHz (6 blocks of 5 MHz) | 30 MHz (6 blocks of 5 MHz) | 3 MHz              |

---