

## GOVERNMENT GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA

| N$28.80 WINDHOEK   | - 25 July 2022                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | No. 7860        |
|--------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------|
| GENERALNOTICES     | GENERALNOTICES                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                 |
| No. 342            | Communication Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of Regulation 7 of the Regulations Regarding Rule-Making Procedure, Communications Act, 2009              | 1               |
| No. 343            | Communication Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice of Intention to Make Regulations Prescribing the Universal Service Levy under Sections 56 and 129   | 2               |
| General Notices    | General Notices                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | General Notices |

## COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

No. 342

NOTICE IN TERMS OF REGULATION 7 OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING RULE-MAKING PROCEDURE, COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia in terms of regulation 7 of the Regulations Regarding Rule-Making Procedures published under Government Gazette No. 4630, General Notice No. 334, dated 17 December 2010, herewith gives notice that it will hold a public hearing regarding:

1. The Regulations Prescribing the Universal Service Levy, as published in Government Gazette No. 7860; General Notice No. 343 dated 25 July 2022.

DATE:

08 August 2022

TIME:

09H00-12H00

VENUE: TBC

Members of the public are invited to make oral submissions at the aforesaid public hearing subject to the following:

1. Any person desirous to make oral submissions at the aforesaid public hearing must deliver written notice thereof to the Authority not later than 5 days before the date of the hearing. Such written notice must be accompanied by concise statement setting out the basis and rationale of the oral submissions.
2. Oral submissions made at the aforesaid public hearing must -
- (a) include a statement of the name and contact details of the person making the oral submissions and the name and contact details of the person of entity on whose behalf the oral submissions are made, if different;
- (b) be clear and concise.
3. The aforesaid notice of oral submissions and concise statement must be delivered to the Authority either physically or electronically as follows:
- (a) By hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communications House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (b) By post to the head offices of the Authority namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek; or
- (c) By electronic mail to the following address legal@cran.na.

**H. M. GAOMAB II**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

No. 343

## NOTICE OF INTENTION TO MAKE REGULATIONS PRESCRIBING THE UNIVERSAL SERVICE LEVY UNDER SECTIONS 56 AND 129

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of sections 56 and 129 of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009), and the Regulations regarding Rule-Making Procedures published in Government Gazette No. 4630, General Notice No. 334 dated 17 December 2010 -

- a) publishes this Notice of Intention to Make Regulations Prescribing the Universal Service Levy under sections 56 and 129 of the Communications Act as set out in Schedule 1; and
- b) sets out the concise statement of the reasons and purpose for the proposed regulations in Schedule 2.

The public may make oral submissions on the proposed regulations to the Authority, at a time, date and place notified by the Authority.

The public are hereby invited to make written representations, comments, communications and submissions (hereafter collectively called 'submissions') to the Authority within thirty (30) consecutive days from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette , in the manner set out below for making of written submissions.

All written submissions must -

- a) contain the name and full contact details (physical and postal address, email address and telephone or cell phone number) of the person making the written submissions and the name and similar contact details of the person for whom the written submission is made if different; and
- b) be clear and concise.

In the event where any person making a submission wishes to designate any information contained in such submission as confidential, such information must be clearly marked as 'confidential'. Notwithstanding, if the Authority is of the opinion that information is not confidential it will inform the person thereof thereby -

- a) allowing the person to withdraw the information from the rule-making proceedings;
- b) agreeing with the person that it will not be treated anymore as confidential information; or
- c) requesting a hearing on the issue of confidentiality to be conducted in accordance with section 28 of the Communications Act.

All written submissions must be send or submitted to be received by the Authority on or prior to the due date anticipated above in any of the following manners -

- a) by hand to the head office of the Authority, namely Communications House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- b) by post to the head office of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek, 9000; or
- c) by electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na.

**H. M. GAOMAB II**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

## SCHEDULE 1

## PROPOSED UNIVERSAL SERVICE LEVY REGULATIONS: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of sections 56 and 129 of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009), makes the Regulations set out in this Schedule.

## Definitions

1. In these Regulations, any word or expression to which a meaning is assigned in the Act, has the same meaning and unless the context indicates otherwise -
2. 'licensee' means the holder of a telecommunications licence or deemed to hold such licence as contemplated in terms of section 45 of the Act;
3. 'universal service levy' means the levy contemplated in section 56 of the Act as imposed under these Regulations;
4. 'the Act' means the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009), as amended from time to time; and

'these Regulations' means these Universal Service Levy Regulations as amended from time to time.

## Submission of documents to the Authority

2. Whenever documents are required to be delivered to the Authority, such documents must be delivered physically or electronically -
- (a) by hand-delivering them to any employee of the Authority at its principal place of business, being Communication House, No. 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (b) by post mailed to Private Bag 13309, Windhoek;
- (c) by electronic mail sent to operations@cran.na; or
- (d) in any other manner or to any other address specified in writing by the Authority from time to time.

## Universal service levy

3. (1) The universal service levy is payable by the licensees subject thereto that if the universal levy payable by a licensee is less than N$ 500, such licensee must pay the amount of N$ 500.
- (2) The universal service levy set out in Annexure A is indicated in Namibian dollar.
- (3) Unless otherwise determined by the Authority, the universal service levy must be paid by means of electronic transfer or direct deposit into the Universal Service Fund.
- (4) A licensee must annually, no later than six months after such licensee's financial year end, submit to the Authority its audited annual financial statements or signed and sworn annual financial statements, as the case may be, subject thereto that a licensee may, at least three months before the due date for such submission, apply to the Authority in writing for an extension and the Authority may grant such extension on good cause shown.

- (5) The universal service levy is paid based on a licensee's turnover as reflected in -
- (a) the audited annual financial statements of a licensee where a licensee is required by law to have financial statements audited or where a licensee annually have its financial statements audited voluntary; or
- (b) the annual financial statements signed and sworn by the licensee's accounting officer in the event where a licensee is not required by law to audit financial statements and does not voluntary have such financial statements audited,

subject thereto that in the event where a licensee's turnover is not accounted for separately and such licensee provides other products or services or conducts other business not regulated by or under the Act, the licensee must attach to the audited annual financial statements or annual financial statements, as the case may be, a separate statement which must -

- (i) indicate the licensee's turnover;
- (ii) indicate the methodology used to extract and determine such turnover;
- (iii) contain such other information as the Authority may determine; and
- (iv) be signed and sworn to by the licensee's auditor or accounting officer, as the case may be, to be a true and correct reflection of the licensee's turnover to the best of the knowledge of such auditor or accountant.
- (6) For purposes of clarity -
- (a) turnover is the turnover of a licensee excluding value added tax;
- (b) turnover is limited to turnover derived from services or business which may be regulated under the Act and it is the duty of a licensee to ensure the reflection of the correct turnover amount in the licensee's audited annual financial statements or signed and sworn annual financial statements, as the case may be.
- (7) (a) On receipt of a licensee's audited annual financial statements or signed and sworn annual financial statements, as the case may be, the Authority must issue the licensee with an invoice stating the amount of the universal service levy payable by such licensee.
- (b) Subject to subregulation (8), a licensee must pay the universal service levy within 30 days after receipt of the invoice.
- (8) (a) The Authority may, upon written application and on good cause shown by a licensee, authorise a licensee to pay the universal service levy in equal monthly instalments of not more than six months.
- (b) A licensee wishing to pay the universal service levy in instalments must submit such written application to the Authority together with the Audited annual financial statement or signed sworn annual financial statement.

## Penalties

4. The Penalty Regulations, published in Government Gazette No. 7197 of 29 April 2020, Government Notice No. 159 of 2020, apply to any contravention of or failure to comply with these Regulations.

## Amendment of regulations

5. The regulations set out in Annexure B are amended as set out in the column 3 thereof.

## Transitional provision and commencement

6. (1) In the event where these Regulations commence subsequent to the start of a licensee's financial year, the universal service levy payable by such licensee is only payable on turnover derived by a licensee as from the commencement of these Regulations.
- (2) These Regulations will become effective on date of publication thereof in the Gazette .

## ANNEXURE A

(Regulation 3)

| Column 1                                                     | Column 2                      |
|--------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------|
| Licence Types                                                | Universal Services Fund Levy  |
| Telecommunications - Individual Comprehensive (ECNS and ECS) | Levy = MAX(500,0.5%*Turnover) |
| Telecommunications - Class ECNS                              | Levy = MAX(500,0.5%*Turnover) |
| Telecommunications - Class ECS                               | Levy = MAX(500,0.5%*Turnover) |
| Telecommunications - Class Comprehensive (ECNS and ECS)      | Levy = MAX(500,0.5%*Turnover) |
| Telecommunications - Network Facilities                      | Levy = MAX(500,0.5%*Turnover) |
| Telecommunications - Non-profit (ECNS and ECS)               | Levy = N$ 500.00              |

## ANNEXURE B

(Regulation 5)

| Column 1 Government Gazette and Government Notice                           | Column 2 Title of Regulations                                                                      | Column 3 Extent of Amendment/Repeal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Government Gazette No. 6589 of 8 May 2018 Government Notice No. 178 of 2018 | Regulations Prescribing the Provision of Universal Service by Telecommunications Service Lisensees | The amendment of regulation 8 by the insertion of the following subregulations after regulation 8(3): '(3A) The Universal Service Fund may additionally receive money from - (a) any donations or grants made or any other money accruing for the benefit of the Universal Service Fund from any other source; (b) any loan made to the Universal Service Fund subject thereto that interest on such loan may not exceed the prime interest rate of the banking institution where the Fund is opened.'. |

## SCHEDULE 2

## CONCISE STATEMENT OF PURPOSE

Section 56 of the Communications Act establishes the Universal Service Fund and authorises the Authority to, by regulation and subject to the rule-making procedure, impose a universal service levy payable to the Universal Service Fund. Sections 23(1), 23(2), 23(6) and 23(9) of the Communications Act (as amended in 2020) apply with the necessary changes to the Authority when imposing the universal service levy. Section 56(3A) states that the universal service levy may not exceed mor than 5% of the annual turnover of a licensee/service provider. Readers are advised to also take note of the Regulations Prescribing the Provision of Universal Service by Telecommunications Service Licensees as published in the Government Gazette No. 6589 of 8 May 2018, General Notice No. 178 of 2018 (obtainable from CRAN's website www.cran.na).

Based on the above provisions of the Communications Act (as amended) factors which the Authority must consider when determining the size of the universal service levy are:

- the minimum set of services prescribed under section 57(1) of the Communications Act;
- the subsidies to be paid to licensees under section 57 of the Communications Act;
- any under- or over-recoveries by the Universal Service Fund (not applicable to the first imposition of the universal service levy);
- any other matter which the Authority deems relevant;
- the impact of the universal service levy on the sustainability of business and ensure that it does not have an unreasonable negative impact on such sustainability;
- ensure predictability, fairness, equitability, transparency and accountability in the determination and imposition of the universal service levy;
- the alignment of the regulatory service levy with regional and international best practices;
- to avoid, as far as possible, income from the universal service levy in excess of what is required;
- the necessity to manage any risks in the communications industry associated with the imposition of the universal access levy;
- any other fees, levies or charges which the providers of communication services are required to pay under the Communications Act.

Together with this Notice of Intention to make Regulations Prescribing the Universal Service Levy, the Authority published its Report on its Universal Access and Services (UAS Report) dated September 2021. The UAS Report echoes the objectives of the National Broadband Policy for the Republic of Namibia: 2019 - 2029 as referenced in the UAS Report. It is not the purpose of this Concise Statement of Purpose to summarise the UAS Report but rather to capture the main aspects thereof. Readers are encouraged to obtain the UAS Report from CRAN's website and review it in conjunction with this Notice of Intention to Make Regulations.

Summarised the UAS Report addresses:

- A gap analysis covering access, usage and affordability falling under the Authority's supervision;
- Comparative analyses of broadband speeds in African countries, the various regions in Namibia, broadband Namibian population coverage and price competition and affordability of Namibia service providers in comparison with UN Broadband Commission targets;
- The role of the various stakeholders, licensees and Ministries to contribute towards the achievement of broadband policy objectives;
- Identified Universal Service Fund interventions which could be funded through the universal service levy such as the upgrade of existing RAN sites and the roll out of new RAN sites and the impact thereof on communities.

Based on the identified Universal Service Fund interventions and analyses, the estimated subsidy for the 36 new RAN sites and 122 upgraded RAN sites, is N$ 25 million for the first year and N$ 20 million in subsequent years. Based on the ICT sector revenues for 2020, this requires a universal service levy of 0.5% on licensees' turnover to cover the cost of the Universal Service Fund.

The formula for calculating the universal service levy works as follows:

Provision of examples: MAX(500,0.005*100,000) = N$ 500 MAX(500,0.005*1,000,000) = N$ 5,000 MAX(500,0.005*100,000,000) = N$ 500,000

MAX(500,0.005*2,000,000,000) = N$ 1,000,000.

## UAS Study Draft Report

| Table of Contents                                                                                   | Table of Contents                                                                                   |   Table of Contents |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------|
| Introduction                                                                                        | 13                                                                                                  |                     |
| GapAnalysis                                                                                         | 13                                                                                                  |                     |
|                                                                                                     | 3G Coverage is not broadband in Namibia                                                             |                  15 |
|                                                                                                     | Broadband Population Coverage                                                                       |                  15 |
|                                                                                                     | Affordability misses UN Broadband Commission's targets                                              |                  15 |
|                                                                                                     | Conclusion                                                                                          |                  17 |
| USF Interventions 18                                                                                | USF Interventions 18                                                                                |                     |
|                                                                                                     | 36 New RAN Sites                                                                                    |                  18 |
|                                                                                                     | 122 RAN site 4G upgrades                                                                            |                  19 |
| Budget and USF licence Fees 19                                                                      | Budget and USF licence Fees 19                                                                      |                     |
| Conclusion                                                                                          | 21                                                                                                  |                     |
| Appendix:                                                                                           | 22                                                                                                  |                     |
|                                                                                                     | Institutions without 4G coverage that require RAN Upgrade                                           |                  23 |
|                                                                                                     | Institutions without 4G coverage covered by MTC USO                                                 |                  23 |
|                                                                                                     | Institutions without 4G coverage that require a new RAN site                                        |                  24 |
| Table of Tables                                                                                     | Table of Tables                                                                                     |                     |
| Table 1: Policy objectives of the National Broadband Policy for the Republic of Namibia: 2019-2029. | Table 1: Policy objectives of the National Broadband Policy for the Republic of Namibia: 2019-2029. |                  10 |
| Table 2: 2020 Broadband speed ranking for Selected SADC countries                                   | Table 2: 2020 Broadband speed ranking for Selected SADC countries                                   |                  10 |
| Table 3: Mobile quality of service KPIs                                                             | Table 3: Mobile quality of service KPIs                                                             |                  11 |
| Table 4: Population Coverages                                                                       | Table 4: Population Coverages                                                                       |                  13 |
| Table 5: Prepaid Products                                                                           | Table 5: Prepaid Products                                                                           |                  13 |
| Table 6: Price of 1GB and 20GB s share of expenditure.                                              | Table 6: Price of 1GB and 20GB s share of expenditure.                                              |                  15 |
| Table 7: Translating policy targets into KPIs                                                       | Table 7: Translating policy targets into KPIs                                                       |                  15 |
| Table 8: Summary assessment for access, usage and affordability                                     | Table 8: Summary assessment for access, usage and affordability                                     |                  16 |
| Table 9: Details of 36 new RAN sites to be tendered                                                 | Table 9: Details of 36 new RAN sites to be tendered                                                 |                  17 |
| Table 10: intervention impact.                                                                      | Table 10: intervention impact.                                                                      |                  18 |
| Table 11: List of RAN sites selected for 4G upgrade.                                                | Table 11: List of RAN sites selected for 4G upgrade.                                                |                  18 |
| Table 12: Already Covered by MTC USO                                                                | Table 12: Already Covered by MTC USO                                                                |                  19 |
| Table 13: List of RAN sites selected for 4G upgrade.                                                | Table 13: List of RAN sites selected for 4G upgrade.                                                |                  19 |
| Table 14: Aggregated financials from the ICT sector based on AFS                                    | Table 14: Aggregated financials from the ICT sector based on AFS                                    |                  21 |
| Table of Figures                                                                                    | Table of Figures                                                                                    |                     |
| Figure 1: Lowest price for 1GB prepaid per month prepaid in N$                                      | Figure 1: Lowest price for 1GB prepaid per month prepaid in N$                                      |                  10 |
| Figure 2: Example of a profitable new RAN site that does not require a direct subsidy               | Figure 2: Example of a profitable new RAN site that does not require a direct subsidy               |                  10 |
| Figure 3: Example for a new RAN site that requires a direct subsidy                                 | Figure 3: Example for a new RAN site that requires a direct subsidy                                 |                  11 |

## Introduction

This study looks into universal access and service as envisaged by the National Broadband Policy for the Republic of Namibia: 2019-2029. The goal of the National Broadband Policy is to achieve reliable and affordable broadband access infrastructure services for all. The policy is based on the following guiding principles: 1

- 'Ensure equitable access to broadband for all Namibians irrespective of geographical location, gender, age among others (Universal access and usage of ICTs).
- Facilitate the adoption of a wide variety of technologies as long as they are affordable, interoperable, resource efficient and contribute to socio-economic transformation.
- Promotion of Broadband for socio-economic development in the application of e-services in all sectors of the economy.
- Development of the ICT industry by promoting investment and innovation.
- Ensure that Namibia approaches and implements broadband initiatives in harmony with other national development programmes and regional frameworks.
- Facilitate the development and rollout of broadband infrastructure and services that respond to the dynamic nature of the economy.
- Realize the critical mass in terms of human, technological and financial resources necessary for effective deployment and usage of broadband infrastructure and services (Capacity Building).'

The four policy objectives of the policy are listed in the table below.

Table 1: Policy objectives of the National Broadband Policy for the Republic of Namibia: 2019-2029.

|   Objective | Objective                                                                                       | Detail                                                                                                     |
|-------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|           1 | To ensure universal access to broadband infrastructure and services                             | Provide quality and affordable broadband countrywide                                                       |
|           2 | To promote the development of content, applications and innovation                              | Enable the use of e-application in government and other sectors of the economy to improve service delivery |
|           3 | To support efforts aimed at capacity building, create awareness and reducing the digital divide | Drive demand and stimulate public and private sector innovation and investment                             |
|           3 | To support efforts aimed at capacity building, create awareness and reducing the digital divide | Improve digital literacy                                                                                   |
|           3 | To support efforts aimed at capacity building, create awareness and reducing the digital divide | Promote the continued development of the broadband ecosystem                                               |
|           4 | To provide an enabling environment for broadband deployment,                                    | Create an enabling policy, legislative and regulatory environment for broadband deployment.                |
|           4 | To provide an enabling environment for broadband deployment,                                    | Promote consumer protection through appropriate regulations                                                |

1 https://gazettes.africa/archive/na/2020/na-government-gazette-dated-2020-08-14-no-7308.pdf

The policy uses the following broadband definition: 'The minimum download speed of 2Mbps as a broadband entry level, which shall be reviewed with the aim to increase the download speeds as per country basis in line with targets contained in the broadband plan. The definition of broadband coverage includes geographical and population coverage for telecommunication networks and coverage of the population for broadcasting. Specifically, and for the purpose of this Policy, broadband is defined to mean a minimum of 2 Mbps download speed available to 80% of the population .'

## Gap Analysis

Generally, various stakeholders and ministries are required to contribute towards the achievement of the broadband policy objectives. This study focuses on the infrastructure aspects of mobile broadband, namely access, usage and affordability, which fall under CRAN's supervision.

- Access is measured via population coverage. For nationwide coverage, only mobile 4G or better is suitable as an indicator in the short to medium term. Fibre to the Home (FTTh) may become a suitable indicator in the future. 3G in Namibia is too slow to be counted as broadband with average speeds of around 1Mbps.
- Usage is measured in speed (Mbps). The faster the average download speed, the more services can reasonably be accessed. Streaming requires, for example, a higher download speed than emails. Also, video conferencing requires higher upload speeds than video streaming, which mostly requires fast download speeds.
- Affordability will be measured as the price for a broadband user basket as a percentage of average individual income. The UN Broadband Commission sets the target at less than 2% of Gross National Product per month for 1GB. 2 This study sets the bar higher at 20GB per month.

This chapter measures Namibia's broadband infrastructure against the target of a minimum of 2Mbps download speed available to 80% of the population at national, regional and constituency level.

## 3G Coverage is not broadband in Namibia

26 countries in Africa had faster average broadband speeds than Namibia. Not only is the average download speed in South Africa three times the speed of Namibia, but most SADC members also have faster broadband services, including Angola, Zimbabwe, Lesotho, Eswatini, Tanzania, Madagascar and Mauritius. Namibia's ICT sector is characterised by state ownership and insufficient competition. This has meant insufficient investment in last-mile connectivity, most notably mobile 4G broadband, low quality of service and high end-user prices.

|   Ranking | Country      |   Mean download speed (Mbps) |   Unique IPs tested |   Total tests |
|-----------|--------------|------------------------------|---------------------|---------------|
|         1 | Madagascar   |                        18.00 |              19,883 |        85,638 |
|         3 | South Africa |                        14.04 |           1,269,432 |    10,194,970 |
|         5 | Lesotho      |                         7.43 |                 172 |           261 |
|         6 | Mauritius    |                         7.28 |               8,998 |        44,681 |
|         7 | Zimbabwe     |                         6.92 |               3,076 |         9,150 |
|        18 | Tanzania     |                         4.54 |              20,582 |       117,255 |
|        19 | Eswatini     |                         4.51 |                 845 |         2,253 |
|        22 | Angola       |                         4.15 |               9,311 |        19,299 |
|        23 | Malawi       |                         4.07 |                 802 |         3,460 |
|        26 | Seychelles   |                         3.96 |                 734 |         3,020 |

Table 2: 2020 Broadband speed ranking for Selected SADC countries

| Ranking   | Country   | Mean download speed (Mbps)                                        |   Unique IPs tested |   Total tests |
|-----------|-----------|-------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------|---------------|
| 27        | Namibia   | 3.91                                                              |               4,291 |         8,163 |
| Source    |           | https://www.cable.co.uk/ broadband/speed/ worldwide-speed-league/ |                     |               |

Namibia's 3G is not broadband based on the definition in the Broadband Policy. The average download speed on 3G is 1 Mbps. 4G speeds are reasonable at 19.33 Mbps. Surprisingly, Kuenen and Kavango West had the fastest 4G download speeds, among all of Namibia's regions. However, that can be explained by low 4G device penetration. With a low number of 4G devices within the coverage footprint, each device can use more of the available throughput.

Table 3: Mobile quality of service KPIs

| Region_Name   | Average Mbps 3G   |   Average Mbps 4G |
|---------------|-------------------|-------------------|
| Kunene        | 1.08              |             28.88 |
| Kavango West  | 1.08              |             26.69 |
| Omaheke       | 0.92              |             24.15 |
| Omusati       | 1.20              |             23.91 |
| Otjozondjupa  | 1.16              |             23.69 |
| Kavango East  | 1.27              |             23.40 |
| !Karas        | 0.95              |             23.19 |
| Hardap        | 0.93              |             22.91 |
| Ohangwena     | 1.08              |             22.44 |
| Zambezi       | 1.24              |             22.16 |
| Oshikoto      | 1.05              |             20.91 |
| Oshana 1.08   | Oshana 1.08       |             20.44 |
| Erongo        | 1.06              |             19.24 |
| Khomas        | 1.07              |             17.93 |
| Namibia       | 1.08              |             19.33 |

## Broadband Population Coverage

MTC and Telecom Namibia have extensive network coverage in all of Namibia's regions. Both MTC and TN are national mobile broadband operators, covering all of Namibia's regions, while MTC clearly has a larger footprint. Population coverage for Namibia is 89% for 3G and 79% for 4G, which is low compared to South Africa and even the Southern African averages. Nine out of 14 regions had 4G population coverage of below 80%. Kunene, Kavango West and Omaheke had less than 50% 4G population coverage.

Table 4: Population Coverages

|              | 4G Population coverage   | Policy Objective   |   People not covered by 4G |
|--------------|--------------------------|--------------------|----------------------------|
| Kunene       | 33%                      | Below              |                     73,110 |
| Kavango West | 40%                      | Below              |                     55,271 |
| Omaheke      | 48%                      | Below              |                     41,581 |
| Zambezi      | 60%                      | Below              |                     41,985 |
| Kavango East | 69%                      | Below              |                     50,734 |
| Otjozondjupa | 72%                      | Below              |                     45,866 |
| Hardap       | 72%                      | Below              |                     26,711 |
| !Karas       | 73%                      | Below              |                     24,113 |
| Oshikoto     | 73%                      | Below              |                     57,636 |
| Omusati      | 82%                      | Above              |                     48,504 |
| Ohangwena    | 90%                      | Above              |                     26,486 |
| Erongo       | 92%                      | Above              |                     17,616 |
| Oshana       | 96%                      | Above              |                      7,533 |
| Khomas       | 96%                      | Above              |                     17,447 |
| Namibia      | 79%                      | just below         |                    534,593 |

## Affordability misses UN Broadband Commission's targets

There is very little movement in the Namibia's mobile market in terms of price competition. Figure 6 displays the price of the cheapest product for 1GB prepaid data per month from MTC and TN Mobile. MTC increased its prices since Q1 2015, for the first time ever. The cheapest product from MTC that qualifies for the 1GB basket per month is Aweh o Yeah, costing for 30 days N$ 123.71. The cheapest product from TN Mobile is JIVA with N$ 147.86 for 30 days.

Figure 1: Lowest price for 1GB prepaid per month prepaid in N$

TN Mobile is cheaper for larger usage baskets than MTC. For the 20GB basket per month TN's Jiva Supreme with a 10GB data allocation for 7 days at N$246.43 was the cheapest in Q2 2021 (see Table 5). The cheapest product from MTC for 20GB per month is dramatically more expensive with N$ 783.64 for the 10GB per week data top-up.

| Product   | Product             |   Validity Days |   Bundled data |   Bundled Social media |   Price N$ excl VAT |   Price per month including VAT |   Monthly Data allocation |
|-----------|---------------------|-------------------|------------------|--------------------------|---------------------|-----------------------------------|-----------------------------|
| TN Mobile | Unlimited per month |                30 |          125,000 |                          |              999.00 |                          1,148.85 |                     125,000 |
| TN Mobile | Unlimited per week  |                 7 |           29,167 |                          |              299.00 |                          1,473.64 |                     125,000 |
| TN Mobile | Unlimited per day   |                 1 |            4,167 |                          |               49.00 |                          1,690.50 |                     125,000 |
| TN Mobile | 100GB per month     |                30 |          100,000 |                          |            3,299.00 |                          3,793.85 |                     100,000 |
| MTC       | 5GB for 3 days      |                 3 |            5,000 |                          |               85.00 |                            977.50 |                      50,000 |
| TN Mobile | 50GB per month      |                30 |           50,000 |                          |            1,999.00 |                          2,298.85 |                      50,000 |
| TN Mobile | Jiva Supreme        |                 7 |           10,000 |                     2000 |               50.00 |                            246.43 |                      42,857 |
| MTC       | 10GB per week       |                 7 |           10,000 |                          |              159.00 |                            783.64 |                      42,857 |
| TN Mobile | 40GB per month      |                30 |           40,000 |                          |            1,599.00 |                          1,838.85 |                      40,000 |
| MTC       | 1GB per day         |                 1 |            1,000 |                          |               31.00 |                          1,069.50 |                      30,000 |
| TN Mobile | 20GB per month      |                30 |           20,000 |                          |            1,049.00 |                          1,206.35 |                      20,000 |
| MTC       | 15GB per month      |                30 |           15,000 |                          |            1,069.00 |                          1,229.35 |                      15,000 |
| MTC       | Aweh o Yeah         |                 7 |            3,000 |                          |               42.06 |                            207.30 |                      12,857 |
| MTC       | Aweh o Yeah         |                 7 |            3,000 |                     1000 |               46.86 |                            230.95 |                      12,857 |
| MTC       | Aweh Super          |                 7 |            3,000 |                      700 |               53.00 |                            261.21 |                      12,857 |
| TN Mobile | 10GB per month      |                30 |           10,000 |                          |              849.00 |                            976.35 |                      10,000 |
| TN Mobile | Jiva Plus           |                 7 |            2,000 |                      500 |               35.00 |                            172.50 |                       8,571 |
| TN Mobile | Jiva Surf           |                 7 |            2,000 |                      500 |               40.00 |                            197.14 |                       8,571 |
| TN Mobile | Jiva                |                 7 |            1,500 |                          |               30.00 |                            147.86 |                       6,429 |
| TN Mobile | 5GB per month       |                30 |            5,000 |                          |              399.00 |                            458.85 |                       5,000 |
| MTC       | Aweh o Yeah         |                 7 |            1,000 |                          |               25.10 |                            123.71 |                       4,286 |
| MTC       | Aweh Gig            |                 7 |            1,000 |                      500 |               32.00 |                            157.71 |                       4,286 |
| MTC       | 3GB per month       |                30 |            3,000 |                          |              353.00 |                            405.95 |                       3,000 |
| TN Mobile | 2GB per month       |                30 |            2,000 |                          |              199.00 |                            228.85 |                       2,000 |
| MTC       | 1.5GB per month     |                30 |            1,500 |                          |              235.00 |                            270.25 |                       1,500 |
| TN Mobile | 1GB per month       |                30 |            1,000 |                          |              139.00 |                            159.85 |                       1,000 |
| MTC       | Aweh Prime          |                 7 |              200 |                      200 |               32.00 |                            157.71 |                         857 |
| MTC       | 800MB per month     |                30 |              800 |                          |              139.00 |                            159.85 |                         800 |
| TN Mobile | 600MB per month     |                30 |              600 |                          |               99.00 |                            113.85 |                         600 |
| MTC       | 400MB per month     |                30 |              400 |                          |               85.00 |                             97.75 |                         400 |

Table 5: Prepaid Products

| Product   | Product         |   Validity Days |   Bundled data |   Bundled Social media |   Price N$ excl VAT |   Price per month including VAT |   Monthly Data allocation |
|-----------|-----------------|-------------------|------------------|--------------------------|---------------------|-----------------------------------|-----------------------------|
| TN Mobile | 300MB per month |                30 |              300 |                          |               35.00 |                             40.25 |                         300 |
| MTC       | Aweh Go         |                 7 |               50 |                       50 |               13.00 |                             64.07 |                         214 |
| MTC       | Aweh Oka        |                 3 |               20 |                       20 |                7.00 |                             80.50 |                         200 |
| TN Mobile | 100MB per month |                30 |              100 |                          |               23.00 |                             26.45 |                         100 |
| MTC       | 80MB per month  |                30 |               80 |                          |               20.00 |                             23.00 |                          80 |
| TN Mobile | 60MB per month  |                30 |               60 |                          |               15.00 |                             17.25 |                          60 |
| TN Mobile | 40MB per month  |                30 |               40 |                          |               10.00 |                             11.50 |                          40 |
| MTC       | 40MB per month  |                30 |               40 |                          |               13.00 |                             14.95 |                          40 |
| TN Mobile | 20MB per month  |                30 |               20 |                          |                5.00 |                              5.75 |                          20 |

Namibia is far from the UN Broadband Commission objective of 2% of GNI per capita for 1GB per month. At a national average, 1GB per month makes up 4.4% of average expenditure per capita per month. In Kavango West, Kavango East and Zambezi it is even above 10%.

Table 6: Price of 1GB and 20GB s share of expenditure.

|              | Annual Consumption per capita   |   Inflation factor | Estimated Monthly Consumption   | Cheapest product available in %of monthly per capita consumption   | Cheapest product available in %of monthly per capita consumption   |
|--------------|---------------------------------|--------------------|---------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|
|              | 2015/2016                       |                    | per capita 2021                 | 1GB per month                                                      | 20GB per month                                                     |
| Kunene       | 14,059                          |               1.29 | 1,506                           | 8.2%                                                               | 16.4%                                                              |
| Kavango West | 12,006                          |               1.29 | 1,286                           | 10.4%                                                              | 19.2%                                                              |
| Omaheke      | 20,992                          |               1.29 | 2,248                           | 6.0%                                                               | 11.0%                                                              |
| Zambezi      | 12,446                          |               1.29 | 1,333                           | 10.1%                                                              | 18.5%                                                              |
| Kavango East | 12,091                          |               1.29 | 1,295                           | 10.3%                                                              | 19.0%                                                              |
| Otjozondjupa | 25,051                          |               1.29 | 2,683                           | 5.0%                                                               | 9.2%                                                               |
| Hardap       | 35,675                          |               1.29 | 3,821                           | 3.5%                                                               | 6.5%                                                               |
| !Karas       | 32,760                          |               1.29 | 3,508                           | 3.8%                                                               | 7.0%                                                               |
| Oshikoto     | 19,352                          |               1.29 | 2,072                           | 6.5%                                                               | 11.9%                                                              |
| Omusati      | 14,484                          |               1.29 | 1,551                           | 8.6%                                                               | 15.9%                                                              |
| Ohangwena    | 18,082                          |               1.29 | 1,936                           | 6.9%                                                               | 12.7%                                                              |
| Erongo       | 42,752                          |               1.29 | 4,579                           | 2.9%                                                               | 5.4%                                                               |
| Oshana       | 28,541                          |               1.29 | 3,057                           | 4.4%                                                               | 8.1%                                                               |
| Khomas       | 58,807                          |               1.29 | 6,298                           | 2.1%                                                               | 3.9%                                                               |
| Namibia      | 28,434                          |               1.29 | 3,045                           | 4.4%                                                               | 8.1%                                                               |

The high broadband prices in Namibia are due to a lack of competition and thus are outside of the scope of a Universal Service Fund. One way the USF can be used to alleviate the high prices for the poor is by paying for Wi-Fi for schools and clinics. This way teachers and health care workers are able to use the Internet for skills upgrade and remote support. Students and patients could also be granted Wi-Fi access and Wi-Fi could be made available to everyone in the community after hours.

## Conclusion

Various stakeholders and ministries are required to contribute towards the achievement of the broadband policy objectives. Table 7 lists potential solutions and the responsible stakeholders for Namibia's broadband ecosystem.

Table 7: Translating policy targets into KPIs

| Challenge                                                                                                                                                        | Solution                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Responsibility                                         | Time frame   |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|--------------|
| Namibia has good connectivity to all of its neighboring countries and is also connected via a submarine cable system (WACS). Land an additional submarine cable. |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Telecom licensees with potential support from UAS fund | 5-10 years   |
| While Nampower's market entry is lowering the cost of national backhaul, the majority of RAN sites are still only backhauled via microwave.                      | It will be uneconomical to backhaul all RAN sites via fibre. The aim could be to expand fibre network to limit microwave backhauling to only a single hop.                                                                                                                    | Telecom licensees with potential support from UAS fund | 1-5 years    |
| Average 3G speed is below the broadband policy requirement                                                                                                       | Migrate all RAN sites to 4G with the aim to switch off 3G. This will require an increase in 4G device availability throughout Namibia.Away to facilitate this is to exempt 4G feature and smartphones from VAT and import duties                                              | Ministry of Finance and Ministry of ICTs               | 1-5 years    |
| Average 3G speed is below the broadband policy requirement                                                                                                       | Facilitate last mile competition by waiving the Namibian shareholding requirement.                                                                                                                                                                                            | Ministry of ICTs and CRAN                              | 1-5 years    |
| Average 3G speed is below the broadband policy requirement                                                                                                       | Facilitate last mile competition by implementing innovate spectrum management regime (see eg BOCRA)                                                                                                                                                                           | CRAN                                                   | 1-5 years    |
| 4G population coverage misses the 80% target                                                                                                                     | Increase 4G coverage by incentivizing new RAN sites through demand stimulation in the form of Wi-Fi for clinics and schools. This overcomes the 4G handset issue and makes Internet access available to those that need it most and are least likely to be able to afford it. | UAS fund                                               | 1-5 years    |

While access is nearly meets the policy objective, the ability to use mobile broadband for most Namibians is curtailed by high cost and slow 3G speeds. Namibians without a 4G capable handset can only use 3G services for mobile Internet access. For those living outside of 4G coverage areas, there is also no incentive to buy a 4G capable handset.

Table 8: Summary assessment for access, usage and affordability

|               |                                                                                                                                                        | Measures                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
|---------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Access        | 4G population coverage is nearly 80%. Ideally, it should be at 98%. However, on regional level, 4G population coverage is below 50% for three regions. | New RAN sites and upgrade of existing RAN sites to 4G.                                                                                                                                                   |
| Usage         | Average 3G mobile download speeds are around 1Mbps and thus only at half of the required 2Mbps speed to be classified as broadband.                    | Wi-Fi for institutions allows teachers, students, health care staff and patience to access 4G speeds without a 4G handset. Wi-Fi paid for by the USF would alleviate the affordability barrier for some. |
| Affordability | Prices for 1GB per month cost twice the target 2% of GNI per capita per month (estimated by consumption per capita per month)                          | Wi-Fi for institutions allows teachers, students, health care staff and patience to access 4G speeds without a 4G handset. Wi-Fi paid for by the USF would alleviate the affordability barrier for some. |

## USF Interventions

The USF could be used to subsidise another submarine cable, build out national fibre networks and extend mobile broadband coverage. The more projects the USF undertakes, the more funds are required and the higher the USF fee needs to be. CRAN has taken the position that it will use the USF funds as little possible but as much as necessary. Given that the 4G population coverage target has nearly been reached, the first phase of the USF will focus on new RAN sites to provide 4G coverage to secondary schools and clinics that currently are outside of 3G or 4G coverage.

GIS based selection of interventions. The selection of interventions centered around educational institutions that are secondary or higher and clinics that were not covered by 4G signal. These were then split into two groups, those within a 12km radius of a RAN side and those without any RAN sites close by.

- Upgrade to 122 RAN sites required. 227 institutions have no 4G coverage but have a RAN site close by so that they can receive 4G coverage through a RAN site upgrade. In total, 122 sites need to be upgraded to cover these institutions. 3
- 36 New RAN sites required. 49 institutions do not have a RAN site within 12km. New RAN sites were placed using QGIS to safeguard that these institutions would have good 4G coverage through the new RAN sites. The exact location of new RAN sites in not cast in stone and can be discussed with the party winning the tender, subject to the institutions being covered.

## 36 New RAN Sites

The main principle for the RAN site rollout is the stimulation of demand. T he USF will pay for 4G routers with uncapped data to secondary and vocational schools and clinics in areas with insufficient coverage. At the same time, paying for Wi-Fi for institutions provides anchor tents for a new RAN site and may make uneconomical sites economical. If the demand stimulation is not enough to lift the demand above the cost of a RAN site, then a direct subsidy will be required for an operator to invest.

3 Six RAN sites are already included in a MTC universal service obligation(USO) Notice 435 GG 7609 27 Aug 2021, which also cover seven institutions.

Figure 2: Example of a profitable new RAN site that does not require a direct subsidy

Direct subsidies are only offered if unmet demand and demand stimulation are not enough to tilt the balance towards profitability. Intervention 22 serves as an example where the unmet demand is already higher than the cost of a new RAN (Figure 2). However, the institutions within the reach of the RAN site will receive free Wi-Fi paid for by the USF in any case. A new RAN site costs N$47,905 per month, the total demand, including demand stimulation is N$ 106,095.

Figure 3: Example for a new RAN site that requires a direct subsidy

Figure 3 provides an example where the unmet demand and the demand stimulation are not enough to cover the monthly cost of a new RAN site. Only 865 people live within a 12 km radius of the new site and based on the average communication expenditure established by the National Household Income and Expenditure surveys (NHIES) would only generate N$ 24,314 per month. Thus a direct subsidy is required to make the new RAN site profitable.

| Region    |   Latitude |   Longitude | Covered by RAN site   | Covered by RAN site   | Maximum Subsidy   | Maximum Subsidy   | Maximum Subsidy   |
|-----------|------------|-------------|-----------------------|-----------------------|-------------------|-------------------|-------------------|
|           |            |             | People                | Institutions        | Monthly           | Annually          | Economic Life     |
| Kunene    | -17.490288 |   13.831112 | 865                   | 1                     | 22,591            | 271,088           | 1,897,619         |
| Kunene    | -18.229378 |   13.273973 | 882                   | 1                     | 22,107            | 265,282           | 1,856,976         |
| Kunene    | -18.070718 |   13.394683 | 566                   | 1                     | 31,353            | 376,239           | 2,633,671         |
| Kunene    | -18.681668 |   13.936942 | 866                   | 2                     | 22,566            | 270,796           | 1,895,571         |
| Kunene    | -20.423619 |   15.179720 | 632                   | 1                     | 29,406            | 352,871           | 2,470,098         |
| Kunene    | -20.678719 |   15.378636 | 455                   | 1                     | 34,579            | 414,953           | 2,904,668         |
| Ohangwena | -17.498330 |   17.511324 | 2,577                 | 1                     | 999               | 11,988            | 83,916            |
| Ohangwena | -17.477809 |   16.966205 | 4,694                 | 1                     | 999               | 11,988            | 83,916            |

| Region         | Latitude   | Longitude   | Covered by RAN site   | Covered by RAN site   | Maximum Subsidy   | Maximum Subsidy   | Maximum Subsidy   |
|----------------|------------|-------------|-----------------------|-----------------------|-------------------|-------------------|-------------------|
| Region         | Latitude   | Longitude   | People                | Institutions        | Monthly           | Annually          | Economic Life     |
| Ohangwena      | -17.823108 | 16.965974   | 2,852                 | 1                     | 999               | 11,988            | 83,916            |
| Ohangwena      | -17.836239 | 16.677558   | 4,204                 | 5                     | 4,995             | 59,940            | 419,580           |
| Ohangwena      | -17.726070 | 16.818094   | 2,748                 | 2                     | 1,998             | 23,976            | 167,832           |
| Ohangwena      | -17.467569 | 16.441258   | 8,412                 | 2                     | 1,998             | 23,976            | 167,832           |
| Oshikoto       | -18.176468 | 17.205476   | 908                   | 1                     | 19,461            | 233,534           | 1,634,738         |
| Oshikoto       | -18.136068 | 17.451386   | 393                   | 1                     | 35,591            | 427,098           | 2,989,686         |
| Oshikoto       | -18.091212 | 16.836966   | 6,113                 | 3                     | 2,997             | 35,964            | 251,748           |
| Oshikoto       | -18.186118 | 16.569437   | 8,795                 | 1                     | 999               | 11,988            | 83,916            |
| Oshikoto       | -18.381438 | 16.414031   | 10,382                | 2                     | 1,998             | 23,976            | 167,832           |
| Kavango East   | -18.018619 | 21.399156   | 7,594                 | 2                     | 1,998             | 23,976            | 167,832           |
| Kavango East   | -17.979459 | 20.354397   | 7,220                 | 1                     | 999               | 11,988            | 83,916            |
| Zambezi        | -17.771564 | 24.803520   | 1,217                 | 1                     | 16,746            | 200,950           | 1,406,647         |
| Zambezi        | -17.667834 | 24.977386   | 2,795                 | 1                     | 999               | 11,988            | 83,916            |
| Zambezi        | -17.855178 | 23.705185   | 2,613                 | 1                     | 999               | 11,988            | 83,916            |
| Zambezi        | -17.966108 | 23.446885   | 1,449                 | 2                     | 10,802            | 129,625           | 907,378           |
| Zambezi        | -17.965564 | 23.446096   | 1,450                 | 2                     | 10,775            | 129,296           | 905,069           |
| Erongo         | -20.764968 | 15.851194   | 168                   | 1                     | 29,803            | 357,641           | 2,503,489         |
| Otjozon- djupa | -20.452622 | 17.777443   | 505                   | 1                     | 22,504            | 270,044           | 1,890,311         |
| Otjozon- djupa | -19.812539 | 16.681137   | 597                   | 1                     | 17,848            | 214,172           | 1,499,206         |
| !Karas         | -28.129076 | 18.594487   | 696                   | 1                     | 999               | 11,988            | 83,916            |
| !Karas         | -27.396018 | 15.476364   | 0                     | 1                     | 47,893            | 574,718           | 4,023,024         |
| Kavango West   | -18.498058 | 19.743982   | 788                   | 1                     | 34,720            | 416,638           | 2,916,464         |
| Kavango West   | -18.528588 | 19.179213   | 2,445                 | 1                     | 7,002             | 84,019            | 588,135           |
| Kavango West   | -18.063863 | 18.917618   | 1,144                 | 1                     | 28,771            | 345,249           | 2,416,742         |
| Kavango West   | -17.872126 | 18.892341   | 4,750                 | 2                     | 1,998             | 23,976            | 167,832           |
| Kavango West   | -17.564091 | 18.460177   | 2,339                 | 1                     | 8,770             | 105,244           | 736,706           |
| Kavango West   | -17.846508 | 18.546298   | 2,807                 | 3                     | 2,997             | 35,964            | 251,748           |

Table 9: Details of 36 new RAN sites to be tendered

| Region       |   Latitude |   Longitude | Covered by RAN site   | Covered by RAN site   | Maximum Subsidy   | Maximum Subsidy   | Maximum Subsidy   |
|--------------|------------|-------------|-----------------------|-----------------------|-------------------|-------------------|-------------------|
|              |            |             | People                | Institutions        | Monthly           | Annually          | Economic Life     |
| Kavango West | -17.900144 |   19.225622 | 5,531                 | 1                     | 999               | 11,988            | 83,916            |
| Total        |            |             | 102,450               | 49                    | 483,258           | 5,799,097         | 40,593,677        |

The subsidies that are calculated through the UAS portal serve as a subsidy ceiling. The RAN sites will be tendered and the tender with the lowest subsidy requirement will win the tender. Subsidy payments will be made monthly or annually.

Table 10: intervention impact.

|              | 4G Population coverage 2021   | 4G Population coverage after Intervention   | Change   |
|--------------|-------------------------------|---------------------------------------------|----------|
| Kavango West | 40.1%                         | 61.6%                                       | 21.5%    |
| Oshikoto     | 73.1%                         | 90.1%                                       | 17.0%    |
| Kavango East | 68.9%                         | 78.5%                                       | 9.6%     |
| Ohangwena    | 90.3%                         | 99.6%                                       | 9.3%     |
| Zambezi      | 60.4%                         | 69.4%                                       | 9.0%     |
| Kunene       | 33.3%                         | 37.8%                                       | 4.4%     |
| !Karas       | 72.7%                         | 73.5%                                       | 0.8%     |
| Otjozondjupa | 72.0%                         | 72.7%                                       | 0.8%     |
| Erongo       | 91.9%                         | 92.2%                                       | 0.3%     |
| Hardap       | 72.2%                         | 72.2%                                       |          |
| Khomas       | 96.3%                         | 96.3%                                       |          |
| Omaheke      | 47.6%                         | 47.6%                                       |          |
| Omusati      | 81.9%                         | 81.9%                                       |          |
| Oshana       | 96.2%                         | 96.2%                                       |          |
| Namibia      | 79.0%                         | 83%                                         | 4.5%     |

The 36 New RAN sites will increase 4G population coverage by about 4.5%. Kavango West will see an increase of 21.5%, Osjikoto by 17% and Kavango East and Ohangwena close to 10%. 52 institutions will receive Wi-Fi paid for by the USF for the period of seven years. Where institutions do not have electricity, the USF will also install solar systems to power routers and charge smartphones.

## 122 RAN site 4G upgrades

227 institutions have no 4G coverage but have a RAN site close by can receive 4G coverage through a RAN site upgrade. In total, 122 sites need to be upgraded to cover these institutions. Of the 122 selected RAN sites for 4G upgrade, 91 are owned by MTC and 31 from Telecom Namibia/ Powercom. This is mainly because MTC has a RAN site close to the institution that requires 4G coverage. If more than one site could be used to provide 4G coverage for an institution, then fibre backhaul was given priority over microwave and microwave over VSAT. Six RAN sites were selected that are backhauled by VSAT due to a lack of an alternative.

The RAN site upgrade will go on tender, site by site, i.e., 122 tenders. Any licensee with 4G spectrum and an infrastructure sharing agreement (if it does not own the site) may bid.

Assumption of no unmet demand. Since the sites to be upgraded already provide 2G and mostly also 3G signal, the assumption is that no additional income will be generated through the 4G upgrade, except the demand stimulus for the institutions that have been given Wi-Fi routers and uncapped Internet.

|    | Owner   | Site ID        | Backhaul   |   Site_ Longitude |   Site_ Latitude |
|----|---------|----------------|------------|-------------------|------------------|
|  1 | MTC     | Aus            | Fiber      |          16.29072 |        -26.65475 |
|  2 | MTC     | Omatjette      | Fiber      |          15.48819 |        -21.03603 |
|  3 | MTC     | OpuwoNBC       | Fiber      |          13.92948 |          -18.169 |
|  4 | MTC     | Warmbad        | Microwave  |          18.76681 |        -28.47149 |
|  5 | MTC     | Berseba        | Microwave  |          17.76758 |              -26 |
|  6 | MTC     | Koes           | Microwave  |        19.1614194 |       -25.921669 |
|  7 | MTC     | Kalkrand       | Microwave  |           17.5821 |         -24.0755 |
|  8 | MTC     | KleinAub       | Microwave  |          16.62336 |        -23.78642 |
|  9 | MTC     | CorridorPOS13  | Microwave  |          19.89108 |        -23.49417 |
| 10 | MTC     | EtusebSchool   | Microwave  |          14.82658 |        -23.29996 |
| 11 | MTC     | Baumgartsbrunn | Microwave  |          16.75928 |        -22.61145 |
| 12 | MTC     | Otjivero       | Microwave  |          17.92322 |        -22.33592 |
| 13 | MTC     | Drimiopsis     | Microwave  |          19.06417 |        -22.08735 |
| 14 | MTC     | Spitzkoppe     | Microwave  |          15.20656 |        -21.86511 |
| 15 | MTC     | Tubusis        | Microwave  |           15.4613 |       -21.584852 |
| 16 | MTC     | Otjimanagombe  | Microwave  |          19.89939 |        -21.44236 |
| 17 | MTC     | UitkomsClinic  | Microwave  |          18.10521 |        -21.14439 |
| 18 | MTC     | Sorrissorris   | Microwave  |           14.7977 |         -20.9418 |
| 19 | MTC     | Otjiperongo    | Microwave  |           15.5662 |         -20.8798 |
| 20 | MTC     | GamTown        | Microwave  |           20.8179 |         -20.2355 |
| 21 | MTC     | Bergsig        | Microwave  |          14.07106 |        -20.22438 |
| 22 | MTC     | Fransfontein   | Microwave  |          15.01643 |        -20.21235 |
| 23 | MTC     | Otjituuo       | Microwave  |          18.59208 |        -19.63589 |
| 24 | MTC     | Tsumkwe        | Microwave  |          20.50136 |        -19.59261 |
| 25 | MTC     | MangetiDune    | Microwave  |          19.72948 |        -19.52065 |
| 26 | MTC     | OmatakoValley  | Microwave  |          19.22716 |        -19.44511 |
| 27 | MTC     | OruvandjaiTN   | Microwave  |          14.13732 |        -18.92308 |
| 28 | MTC     | Tsinstabis     | Microwave  |          17.96467 |        -18.77503 |
| 29 | MTC     | Mangetti       | Microwave  |          18.58949 |        -18.73531 |
| 30 | MTC     | Casablanca     | Microwave  |           17.1077 |        -18.52124 |
| 31 | MTC     | Uutsathima     | Microwave  |          14.83886 |        -18.45445 |

|    | Owner   | Site ID        | Backhaul   |   Site_ Longitude |   Site_ Latitude |
|----|---------|----------------|------------|-------------------|------------------|
| 32 | MTC     | Onanke         | Microwave  |          16.32011 |        -18.44903 |
| 33 | MTC     | Mpora          | Microwave  |           19.2768 |        -18.42746 |
| 34 | MTC     | Amarika        | Microwave  |          15.19168 |        -18.34473 |
| 35 | MTC     | Onamatanga     | Microwave  |          14.49772 |        -18.34124 |
| 36 | MTC     | Elavi          | Microwave  |          17.97013 |        -18.26099 |
| 37 | MTC     | DjaraDjara     | Microwave  |          20.69526 |        -18.25819 |
| 38 | MTC     | Mbilajwe       | Microwave  |          23.84535 |        -18.24179 |
| 39 | MTC     | Ncamagoro      | Microwave  |          19.46332 |        -18.22192 |
| 40 | MTC     | Erago          | Microwave  |           19.2728 |        -18.19984 |
| 41 | MTC     | Livayi         | Microwave  |          20.98663 |        -18.19883 |
| 42 | MTC     | Baramasoni     | Microwave  |          20.18948 |        -18.18653 |
| 43 | MTC     | Shamaturu      | Microwave  |          21.34562 |        -18.15989 |
| 44 | MTC     | Ncuncuni       | Microwave  |          19.77213 |        -18.14129 |
| 45 | MTC     | Kapani         | Microwave  |          23.94762 |         -18.1404 |
| 46 | MTC     | Ncogo          | Microwave  |         20.343138 |        -18.13092 |
| 47 | MTC     | Omakange       | Microwave  |          14.32202 |        -18.11308 |
| 48 | MTC     | RukuraJuniorPS | Microwave  |          18.40733 |         -18.1075 |
| 49 | MTC     | Okasheshete    | Microwave  |          15.86039 |        -18.07414 |
| 50 | MTC     | MburuuruPS     | Microwave  |          18.72938 |        -18.06142 |
| 51 | MTC     | Othilu         | Microwave  |          17.04556 |        -18.06086 |
| 52 | MTC     | Lizauli        | Microwave  |          23.35498 |        -18.04872 |
| 53 | MTC     | Katere         | Microwave  |          20.76139 |        -18.04319 |
| 54 | MTC     | Omega          | Microwave  |          22.20086 |        -18.04025 |
| 55 | MTC     | Okatseidhi     | Microwave  |          14.71803 |        -17.99057 |
| 56 | MTC     | Chinchimani    | Microwave  |            24.115 |        -17.98578 |
| 57 | MTC     | Katenture      | Microwave  |          21.06497 |        -17.96411 |
| 58 | MTC     | Ibbu           | Microwave  |          24.52418 |        -17.95922 |
| 59 | MTC     | Chetto         | Microwave  |          22.55544 |         -17.9512 |
| 60 | MTC     | Ompundja       | Microwave  |        15.7012194 |       -17.908669 |
| 61 | MTC     | Muyako         | Microwave  |          24.40318 |        -17.89373 |
| 62 | MTC     | Omega3         | Microwave  |          22.89777 |        -17.87821 |
| 63 | MTC     | OnakahekeCS    | Microwave  |          15.04063 |        -17.80046 |
| 64 | MTC     | Sibbinda       | Microwave  |          23.81972 |        -17.78453 |
| 65 | MTC     | Kwena          | Microwave  |          24.36456 |        -17.77542 |
| 66 | MTC     | Kaukuwa        | Microwave  |          18.46676 |        -17.76819 |
| 67 | MTC     | Lusese         | Microwave  |          24.69777 |        -17.76786 |

|     | Owner   | Site ID                          | Backhaul   |   Site_ Longitude |   Site_ Latitude |
|-----|---------|----------------------------------|------------|-------------------|------------------|
|  68 | MTC     | Impalila                         | Microwave  |         25.169964 |       -17.755336 |
|  69 | MTC     | Ombetele                         | Microwave  |           15.1623 |         -17.7536 |
|  70 | MTC     | Ohandungu                        | Microwave  |          13.62347 |        -17.74417 |
|  71 | MTC     | Itomba                           | Microwave  |          24.93458 |        -17.73121 |
|  72 | MTC     | ElondoEast                       | Microwave  |          15.01695 |        -17.72981 |
|  73 | MTC     | Sachinga                         | Microwave  |          24.00772 |        -17.70347 |
|  74 | MTC     | Mpungu                           | Microwave  |          18.22026 |        -17.64556 |
|  75 | MTC     | Etoto                            | Microwave  |          14.05711 |        -17.63681 |
|  76 | MTC     | Onehanga                         | Microwave  |           17.4687 |        -17.62265 |
|  77 | MTC     | Kalimbeza                        | Microwave  |          24.54338 |        -17.56956 |
|  78 | MTC     | Schuckmansburg                   | Microwave  |          24.81408 |        -17.55172 |
|  79 | MTC     | Oushake                          | Microwave  |          16.56023 |        -17.50687 |
|  80 | MTC     | Onawa                            | Microwave  |          15.06646 |        -17.48164 |
|  81 | MTC     | Ondimbwa                         | Microwave  |           15.5037 |          -17.472 |
|  82 | MTC     | Omboloka                         | Microwave  |          17.12361 |        -17.41033 |
|  83 | MTC     | WakashamaneBorderPost            | Microwave  |          15.24646 |        -17.39424 |
|  84 | MTC     | BlueSodalite                     | Microwave  |          13.78282 |        -17.34934 |
|  85 | MTC     | Epupa                            | Microwave  |          13.24524 |        -17.00315 |
|  86 | MTC     | EBay                             | VSAT       |          15.19347 |        -26.89122 |
|  87 | MTC     | Eiseb                            | VSAT       |          20.83683 |        -20.60184 |
|  88 | MTC     | TerraceBay                       | VSAT       |          13.03953 |        -19.99306 |
|  89 | MTC     | Anker                            | VSAT       |          14.54812 |        -19.80102 |
|  90 | MTC     | Otjokavare                       | VSAT       |          14.35136 |        -19.05597 |
|  91 | MTC     | Masokotwani                      | VSAT       |          24.19991 |        -17.79545 |
|  92 | TN      | KRS0019_Bethanien                |            |        17.2381167 |       -26.483667 |
|  93 | TN      | HDP0009_Gochas                   |            |          18.80995 |       -24.859717 |
|  94 | TN      | HDP0012_Kalkrand Microwave Tower |            |        17.4877778 |       -23.950278 |
|  95 | TN      | KMS0054_Dordabis                 |            |         17.669874 |       -22.939508 |
|  96 | TN      | OHE0012_BUITEPOS                 |            |        19.9061167 |       -22.295133 |
|  97 | TN      | OHE0031_Epukiro                  |            |        19.4219444 |       -21.550833 |
|  98 | TN      | ENG0045_Okombahe TN-GBTS         |            |         15.357974 |        -21.32927 |
|  99 | TN      | OOA0095_Okamatapati              |            |         18.214783 |       -20.405217 |
| 100 | TN      | OOA0011_Okurusu Mine Tower       |            |        16.7436167 |         -20.0468 |
| 101 | TN      | KNE0039_Ewree                    |            |        14.3128624 |       -19.687717 |

Table 11: List of RAN sites selected for 4G upgrade.

|     | Owner   | Site ID                | Backhaul   |   Site_ Longitude |   Site_ Latitude |
|-----|---------|------------------------|------------|-------------------|------------------|
| 102 | TN      | KNE0033_Ongava lodge   |            |           15.8728 |          -19.334 |
| 103 | TN      | KNE0048_Ontwani        |            |        13.6779083 |       -18.562678 |
| 104 | TN      | OHT0010_Omuthiya       |            |        16.5841667 |       -18.365278 |
| 105 | TN      | OHT0011_Okapuku        |            |        16.4756667 |         -18.2713 |
| 106 | TN      | OHT0037_Omuntele       |            |           16.2393 |         -18.2394 |
| 107 | TN      | OHT0047_Onyuulaye      |            |        16.5293194 |       -18.073819 |
| 108 | TN      | OVG0012_Nyangana       |            |          20.61075 |       -18.043467 |
| 109 | TN      | OVG0007_Arendsnes      |            |        19.6244444 |       -18.041667 |
| 110 | TN      | OVG0022_Shinyungwe     |            |        20.8931667 |       -18.035967 |
| 111 | TN      | OVG0011_Ndonga Linena  |            |        20.5036167 |         -17.9709 |
| 112 | TN      | OHT0049_Okankolo       |            |         16.420669 |       -17.961472 |
| 113 | TN      | OVG0003_Mupapama       |            |        20.2814667 |       -17.927917 |
| 114 | TN      | OVG0006_Mashare School |            |        20.1375517 |       -17.907833 |
| 115 | TN      | OUI0019_Onaanda        |            |        15.3338833 |         -17.9075 |
| 116 | TN      | CAP0009_Ngoma          |            |          24.70285 |       -17.905083 |
| 117 | TN      | OVG0001_Bunya          |            |        19.3486667 |       -17.868367 |
| 118 | TN      | OUI0009_Omuthitu       |            |        15.2690333 |        -17.83895 |
| 119 | TN      | OGA0019_Epembe         |            |          16.45275 |       -17.784417 |
| 120 | TN      | OUI0005_Ombathi        |            |        15.1847833 |       -17.606417 |
| 121 | TN      | OUI0011_Omahenene      |            |         14.784038 |       -17.438331 |
| 122 | TN      | OVG0017_Katwitwi       |            |        18.4266972 |       -17.407972 |

Table 12: Already Covered by MTC USO

|    | Owner   | Site ID     | Backhaul   |   Site_Longitude |   Site_Latitude |
|----|---------|-------------|------------|------------------|-----------------|
|  1 | MTC     | Rietoog     | Microwave  |         16.53611 |       -23.98624 |
|  2 | MTC     | Anabeb      | Microwave  |          13.7281 |       -19.13661 |
|  3 | MTC     | Ncaute      | Microwave  |         19.82445 |       -18.37296 |
|  4 | MTC     | EtangaTN    | Microwave  |         13.03412 |       -17.86813 |
|  5 | MTC     | Mayara      | Microwave  |         21.23167 |       -17.98481 |
|  6 | MTC     | OtjondekaTN | Microwave  |         14.23417 |       -18.62951 |

The cost up upgrading 122 RAN sites is estimated be close to N$14.2 million per year. The cost per RAN site of N$ 800,000 is split across its economic life of seven years, leading to an annual cost of N$115,000 per RAN site per year.

Table 13: List of RAN sites selected for 4G upgrade.

|                                     |         |   Units |   Total expected Subsidy |
|-------------------------------------|---------|---------|--------------------------|
| Maximum subsidy 4G upgrade          | 800,000 |         |                          |
| Economic Life                       |       7 |         |                          |
| Maximum subsidy 4G upgrade per year | 114,286 |     122 |               13,942,857 |
| Demand Stimulation                  |     999 |     227 |                  226,773 |
| Total                               |         |         |               14,169,630 |

## Budget and USF licence Fees

The estimated subsidy for the 36 new RAN sites and 122 upgraded RAN sites is N$25 million in the first year and N$20 million in subsequent years. Based on ICT sector revenues for 2020, this requires a USF licence fee of 0.5% to cover the costs of the USF.

Table 14: Aggregated financials from the ICT sector based on AFS

|                                                |        |   Year |   Year |   Year |   Year |   Year |   Year |   Year |
|------------------------------------------------|--------|--------|--------|--------|--------|--------|--------|--------|
|                                                | 2020   |      1 |      2 |      3 |      4 |      5 |      6 |      7 |
| ICT sector combined revenue N$ million         | 5,116  |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |
| USF requirement for 36 RAN Sites N$ million    |        |    5.8 |    5.8 |    5.8 |    5.8 |    5.8 |    5.8 |    5.8 |
| Upgrade of 128 RAN sites                       |        |   14.2 |   14.2 |   14.2 |   14.2 |   14.2 |   14.2 |   14.2 |
| Solar Kits at 50,000 each for 100 institutions |        |      5 |        |        |        |        |        |        |
| Total                                          |        |     25 |     20 |     20 |     20 |     20 |     20 |     20 |
| Implied USF licene fee                         | 0.489% |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |

The calculations are based on the maximum level of subsidy and the actual subsidy requirement can be lower. Funds that cannot be spent within three years should be returned to licensee pro rata. At the same time, the licence fee needs to be increased if larger projects are to be financed, such as landing another submarine cable or national fibre projects.

## Conclusion

The interventions detailed in this study will ensure that all secondary educational institutions and health clinics in Namibia will have 4G coverage. The 36 new RAN sites will achieve the National Broadband policy target of 80% 4G population coverage. The upgrade of 128 RAN sites will push coverage to close to 95%. In total, 288 institutions will receive uncapped Wi-Fi for 7 years under this funding cycle.

The Universal Access Fund will be a separate fund and the funds will be utilized to fund digital connectivity as discussed in the document. As with the regulatory levies the levies will be reviewed every 3-5 years. The fund in terms of section 56(4)(a) the Fund will also be utilized to defray the expenses directly related to the administration, control and accounting of the ASF.

There is also a need to engage the Ministries of Education and Health to discuss the interventions and obtain their support for the proposed interventions. CRAN should also engage the Ministry of Finance on possible tax rebates to 1) reduce the cost of telecommunications equipment and 2) lower prices for smart devices to ensure that all Namibians have access to telecommunications services. Reducing or removing VAT from prepaid services might be beneficial to the Government in the longrun and assist in reducing the price of telecommunication services.

Universal access should be a collective initiative where government and the telecommunications industry work together to ensure that all Namibians have access to affordable, high quality services that will grow the economy.

Appendix: Institutions without 4G coverage that require RAN Upgrade

|    | Name                  | Description   |   Lattitude |   Longitude |
|----|-----------------------|---------------|-------------|-------------|
|  1 | Amarika Clinic        | Clinic        |  -18.345704 |   15.193087 |
|  2 | Anichab Clinic        | Clinic        |   -20.95132 |    14.83611 |
|  3 | Anker Clinic          | Clinic        |   -19.79826 |    14.54507 |
|  4 | Aus Clinic            | Clinic        |   -26.66366 |    16.25865 |
|  5 | Baramasoni Clinic     | Clinic        |   -18.18875 |    20.18795 |
|  6 | Batubaja Clinic       | Clinic        |   -18.20563 |    23.87565 |
|  7 | Baumgartsbrunn Clinic | Clinic        |   -22.60954 |    16.78288 |
|  8 | Bergsig Clinic        | Clinic        |   -20.21743 |    14.07119 |
|  9 | Berseba Clinic        | Clinic        |  -25.993447 |   17.761336 |
| 10 | Buite Post Clinic     | Clinic        |   -22.28138 |    19.99138 |
| 11 | Chetto Clinic         | Clinic        |   -17.95305 |    22.55869 |
| 12 | Chinchimani Clinic    | Clinic        |   -17.98592 |    24.11845 |
| 13 | Corridor Clinic       | Clinic        |   -23.50667 |    19.89485 |
| 14 | Dordabis Clinic       | Clinic        |   -22.94869 |    17.66269 |
| 15 | Eendombe Clinic       | Clinic        |   -17.72159 |    15.09908 |
| 16 | Eengolo Clinic        | Clinic        |   -17.60821 |    15.07905 |
| 17 | Eiseb Clinic          | Clinic        |   -20.61416 |    20.84611 |
| 18 | Elizabeth Bay Clinic  | Clinic        |   -26.89481 |    15.19075 |
| 19 | Epembe Clinic         | Clinic        |  -17.780815 |   16.451074 |
| 20 | Epukiro Post 3 Clinic | Clinic        |   -21.59764 |     19.4143 |
| 21 | Epupa Clinic          | Clinic        |   -17.00107 |    13.25286 |
| 22 | Erago Clinic          | Clinic        |   -18.19448 |    19.27447 |
| 23 | Erwee Clinic          | Clinic        |   -19.68746 |     14.3142 |
| 24 | Etoto Clinic          | Clinic        |   -17.62432 |    14.11459 |
| 25 | Fransfontein Clinic   | Clinic        |   -20.21424 |    15.01239 |
| 26 | Gam Clinic            | Clinic        |  -20.240358 |    20.81691 |

|    | Name                   | Description   |   Lattitude |   Longitude |
|----|------------------------|---------------|-------------|-------------|
| 27 | Gochas Clinic          | Clinic        |  -24.861243 |   18.812667 |
| 28 | Harnas Lifeline Clinic | Clinic        |  -21.597669 |   19.416085 |
| 29 | Ibbu Clinic            | Clinic        |   -17.96237 |    24.52134 |
| 30 | Impalila Clinic        | Clinic        |  -17.766143 |   25.177399 |
| 31 | Isize Clinic           | Clinic        |   -17.56837 |    24.54387 |
| 32 | Itomba Clinic          | Clinic        |   -17.69051 |    24.90067 |
| 33 | Kalkrand Clinic        | Clinic        |  -24.073731 |   17.591174 |
| 34 | Kandjara Clinic        | Clinic        |   -18.20278 |    20.77468 |
| 35 | Kanono Clinic          | Clinic        |   -17.94079 |    24.14597 |
| 36 | Kapupahedi Clinic      | Clinic        |   -18.13315 |     20.3684 |
| 37 | Karukuta Clinic        | Clinic        |  -17.993814 |   20.577838 |
| 38 | Katere Clinic          | Clinic        |   -18.02565 |    20.77311 |
| 39 | Klein Aub Clinic       | Clinic        |   -23.78975 |   16.635776 |
| 40 | Koes Clinic            | Clinic        |  -25.931998 |   19.122467 |
| 41 | Linyanti Clinic        | Clinic        |   -18.07562 |    24.02303 |
| 42 | Lisikili Clinic        | Clinic        |   -17.55215 |    24.44369 |
| 43 | Lusese Clinic          | Clinic        |  -17.763833 |   24.694715 |
| 44 | Mabushe Clinic         | Clinic        |  -17.898742 |   20.375064 |
| 45 | Mangetti Clinic        | Clinic        |   -18.73734 |    18.58941 |
| 46 | Mashare Clinic         | Clinic        |   -17.90511 |    20.13861 |
| 47 | Masokotwane Clinic     | Clinic        |   -17.79703 |    24.20354 |
| 48 | Mbalasinte Clinic      | Clinic        |  -17.791504 |   25.023485 |
| 49 | Mbambi East Clinic     | Clinic        |  -17.970238 |   21.007553 |
| 50 | Mbambi West Clinic     | Clinic        |  -17.473395 |   18.470651 |
| 51 | Mburu-uru Clinic       | Clinic        |   -18.06066 |   18.730964 |
| 52 | Mile 10 Clinic         | Clinic        |   -18.02971 |    19.65333 |
| 53 | Mile 30 Clinic         | Clinic        |   -18.20073 |    19.48233 |
| 54 | Mpora Clinic           | Clinic        |   -18.43388 |    19.26583 |
| 55 | Muparara Clinic        | Clinic        |   -18.02948 |    18.39902 |
| 56 | Muyako Clinic          | Clinic        |  -17.887883 |    24.39995 |
| 57 | Ncuncuni Clinic        | Clinic        |   -18.15087 |    19.76812 |
| 58 | Ndonga Iinena Clinic   | Clinic        |  -17.952333 |   20.475003 |
| 59 | Nepara Clinic          | Clinic        |   -17.79593 |    18.42537 |
| 60 | Ngoma Clinic           | Clinic        |   -17.92019 |    24.70937 |
| 61 | Nyangana Clinic        | Clinic        |  -18.007004 |    20.67418 |
| 62 | Ohandungu Clinic       | Clinic        |     -17.767 |     13.6404 |
| 63 | Okamatapi Clinic       | Clinic        |  -20.405479 |   18.215185 |

|     | Name                      | Description   |   Lattitude |   Longitude |
|-----|---------------------------|---------------|-------------|-------------|
|  64 | Okatseidhi Clinic         | Clinic        |   -17.99249 |     14.7177 |
|  65 | Okaukuejo Clinic          | Clinic        |  -19.329816 |   15.938323 |
|  66 | Okombahe Clinic           | Clinic        |   -21.35639 |   15.379983 |
|  67 | Okorusu Clinic - Outreach | Clinic        |  -20.057705 |   16.750157 |
|  68 | Oluteyi Clinic            | Clinic        |   -17.83019 |    15.16555 |
|  69 | Omakange Clinic           | Clinic        |    -18.1127 |   14.316842 |
|  70 | Omatako Clinic            | Clinic        |  -19.438452 |   19.223762 |
|  71 | Omatjete Clinic           | Clinic        |  -21.053894 |   15.507834 |
|  72 | Omboloka Clinic           | Clinic        |  -17.408666 |    17.12805 |
|  73 | Omega Clinic              | Clinic        |  -18.028454 |   22.202487 |
|  74 | Omitara Clinic            | Clinic        |  -22.289231 |   17.973011 |
|  75 | Omuntele Clinic           | Clinic        |  -18.238311 |   16.239907 |
|  76 | Onamatanga Clinic         | Clinic        |  -18.342701 |    14.49775 |
|  77 | Onanke Clinic             | Clinic        |  -18.445975 |   16.324555 |
|  78 | Onheleiwa Clinic          | Clinic        |   -17.42147 |     15.4682 |
|  79 | Onyuulaye Clinic          | Clinic        |  -18.076217 |   16.528283 |
|  80 | Orumana Clinic            | Clinic        |   -18.25656 |     13.8945 |
|  81 | Oruvandjei Clinic         | Clinic        |   -18.91907 |     14.1067 |
|  82 | Oshalongo Clinic          | Clinic        |    -18.2925 |    16.37472 |
|  83 | Otjimanangombe Clinic     | Clinic        |   -21.43486 |    19.89589 |
|  84 | Otjimuhaka Clinic         | Clinic        |   -17.33417 |    13.83758 |
|  85 | Otjituuo Clinic           | Clinic        |  -19.637702 |   18.597399 |
|  86 | Otjokavare Clinic         | Clinic        |   -19.06461 |    14.34909 |
|  87 | Otuani Clinic             | Clinic        |   -18.56888 |     13.6875 |
|  88 | Schuckmansburg Clinic     | Clinic        |  -17.548748 |   24.814999 |
|  89 | Shamaturu Clinic          | Clinic        |  -18.160598 |    21.34376 |
|  90 | Sharukwe Clinic           | Clinic        |   -18.04542 |    19.75735 |
|  91 | Spitzkoppe Clinic         | Clinic        |  -21.846536 |   15.207598 |
|  92 | Takawasa Clinic           | Clinic        |  -17.892471 |    20.25593 |
|  93 | Terrace Bay Clinic        | Clinic        |   -19.99078 |    13.03748 |
|  94 | Tsintsabis Clinic         | Clinic        |  -18.771436 |   17.962577 |
|  95 | Tsumkwe Clinic            | Clinic        |  -19.593799 |   20.503194 |
|  96 | Tubusis Clinic            | Clinic        |   -21.58502 |    15.45815 |
|  97 | Uitkoms Clinic            | Clinic        |   -21.08618 |    18.06184 |
|  98 | Utuseb Clinic             | Clinic        |  -23.274313 |   14.765429 |
|  99 | Uutsathima Clinic         | Clinic        |   -18.45555 |    14.83749 |
| 100 | Warmbad Clinic            | Clinic        |  -28.445074 |   18.733527 |

|     | Name                                 | Description           |   Lattitude |   Longitude |
|-----|--------------------------------------|-----------------------|-------------|-------------|
| 101 | Elavi                                | Clininc               |  -18.260005 |    17.96861 |
| 102 | Adam Steve Combined School           | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |      -25.93 |     19.1342 |
| 103 | Alfa Combined School                 | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -18.14167 |    13.92583 |
| 104 | Anna Maasdorp Combined School        | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -23.926111 |   17.513889 |
| 105 | Batubaja Combined School             | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -18.206111 |   23.876111 |
| 106 | Bunya Combined School                | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -17.86722 |    19.36333 |
| 107 | Eendombe Combined School             | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -17.706289 |   15.075963 |
| 108 | Elundu Combined School               | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -17.477409 |   16.498556 |
| 109 | Eneas Peter Nanyemba Combined School | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -18.387226 |   16.482917 |
| 110 | Enguwantale Combined School          | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -17.98778 |     15.6925 |
| 111 | Epembe Combined School               | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -17.78472 |    16.45056 |
| 112 | Epoko Combined School                | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -17.484619 |   15.202495 |
| 113 | Etsapa Combined School               | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -17.841211 |   16.525109 |
| 114 | Gam Combined School                  | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -20.235463 |   20.813183 |
| 115 | Hainyeko Combined School             | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -17.480439 |   17.108717 |
| 116 | I.K.Tjimuhiva Combined School        | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |     -18.115 |    14.31597 |
| 117 | Ibbu Combined School                 | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -17.96333 |    24.52139 |
| 118 | Iikelo Combined School               | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -17.87861 |    16.40028 |
| 119 | Iishanaputa Combined School          | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -17.47361 |    14.72222 |
| 120 | Ikaba Combined School                | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |      -17.69 |   24.903036 |
| 121 | Ioma Combined School                 | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -17.92972 |    24.63167 |
| 122 | Iseke Combined School                | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -17.86361 |   24.479167 |
| 123 | Isize Combined School                | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -17.569444 |   24.544167 |
| 124 | Jakob Basson Combined School         | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -20.216482 |    14.07227 |
| 125 | Kaenda Combined School               | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -17.742222 |   23.957778 |
| 126 | Kaitsi !Gubeb Combined School        | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |    -25.9983 |     17.7727 |
| 127 | Kaliangile Combined School           | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -17.759167 |   23.840833 |
| 128 | Kanono Combined School               | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -17.940556 |   24.145278 |
| 129 | Kapani Combined School               | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -18.13917 |    23.95167 |
| 130 | Kasivi Combined School               | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -17.851867 |   19.295708 |
| 131 | Kephas Muzuma Combined School        | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -19.06222 |    14.34778 |
| 132 | King Kauluma Combined School         | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -18.48972 |    17.06056 |

|     | Name                          | Description           |   Lattitude |   Longitude |
|-----|-------------------------------|-----------------------|-------------|-------------|
| 133 | Kwena Combined School         | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -17.77627 |    24.36719 |
| 134 | Linea Nampala Combined School | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -17.954134 |   16.483724 |
| 135 | Linyanti Combined School      | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -18.07444 |    24.02222 |
| 136 | Lisikili Combined School      | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -17.551667 |   24.443056 |
| 137 | Livayi Combined School        | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -18.206944 |   20.989167 |
| 138 | Lizauli Combined School       | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -18.048333 |   23.344722 |
| 139 | Lusese Combined School        | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -17.76472 |    24.69583 |
| 140 | Lusu Combined School          | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -17.878611 |   24.187778 |
| 141 | Mabushe Combined School       | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -17.898706 |   20.360601 |
| 142 | Makanga Combined School       | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -17.817778 |   23.778611 |
| 143 | Malengalenga Combined School  | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -18.278889 |   23.796389 |
| 144 | Mangetti Combined School      | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -18.733665 |    18.58763 |
| 145 | Mashare Combined School       | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -17.90556 |    20.13778 |
| 146 | Masokotwani Combined School   | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -17.796389 |   24.203889 |
| 147 | Mbalasinte Combined School    | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -17.79167 |      25.025 |
| 148 | Mupapama Combined School      | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -17.892786 |    20.25651 |
| 149 | Muyako Combined School        | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -17.889444 |   24.399722 |
| 150 | Naiti Combined School         | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -17.546561 |   15.226818 |
| 151 | Namiyundu Combined School     | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |     -17.555 |   24.865833 |
| 152 | Nankuntwe Combined School     | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -17.578611 |   24.917222 |
| 153 | Ncagcu Primary School         | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -18.02833 |      19.655 |
| 154 | Ncamagoro Combined School     | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -18.197692 |   19.479912 |
| 155 | Ndiyona Combined School       | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -18.04028 |    20.70139 |
| 156 | Ndonga Linena Combined School | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |    -17.9525 |   20.469444 |
| 157 | Ndoro Memorial Primary School | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -17.851389 |   22.913333 |
| 158 | Nsundwa Combined School       | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -17.64667 |    24.87556 |
| 159 | Ntara Combined School         | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -17.848007 |   19.250698 |
| 160 | Nyambali Combined School      | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -18.243975 |   16.238073 |
| 161 | Nyangana Combined School      | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -18.00722 |    20.67417 |
| 162 | Nyondo Combined School        | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -18.003056 |   20.617778 |
| 163 | Ofilu Combined School         | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -18.058119 |   17.029936 |
| 164 | Oikokola Combined School      | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -17.42056 |    15.55056 |
| 165 | Okafa Combined School         | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -17.448394 |   14.746815 |

|     | Name                           | Description           |   Lattitude |   Longitude |
|-----|--------------------------------|-----------------------|-------------|-------------|
| 166 | Okamatapati Combined School    | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -20.402687 |    18.21461 |
| 167 | Okangororosa Combined School   | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -18.404839 |   16.539187 |
| 168 | Okathitu Combined School       | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -17.65965 |    15.00035 |
| 169 | Oluteyi Combined School        | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -17.828529 |   15.164104 |
| 170 | Omafa Primary School           | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -17.41978 |    14.82359 |
| 171 | Omahila Combined School        | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -17.560199 |   15.096045 |
| 172 | Omapopo Combined School        | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -17.977184 |   15.409873 |
| 173 | Ombathi Combined School        | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -17.625317 |   15.175204 |
| 174 | Omboloka Combined School       | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -17.40944 |    17.12417 |
| 175 | Omulunga Combined School       | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -17.90111 |    16.44139 |
| 176 | Onakamwandi Combined School    | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -18.02528 |    15.79528 |
| 177 | Ondeka Combined School         | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |    -17.4136 |    15.12778 |
| 178 | Ondjamba Combined School       | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -18.174106 |   16.255146 |
| 179 | Onelago Combined School        | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -17.45972 |    15.13446 |
| 180 | Ongolo Combined School         | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -17.60829 |    15.07697 |
| 181 | Onyuulaye Combined School      | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -18.07444 |    16.52778 |
| 182 | Orumana Combined School        | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -18.258128 |    13.89479 |
| 183 | Oshamukweni Combined School    | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -17.654928 |   17.546083 |
| 184 | Oshikulufitu Combined School   | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -17.551762 |   15.139746 |
| 185 | Oshipumbu Combined School      | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -17.96472 |    15.76944 |
| 186 | Otjerunda Combined School      | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -18.20139 |    14.00611 |
| 187 | Oukwandongo Combined School    | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |     -17.407 |    14.87136 |
| 188 | Pyamukuu Combined School       | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -17.75479 |    15.15227 |
| 189 | Rucara Combined School         | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -18.01889 |    20.73056 |
| 190 | Sachinga Combined School       | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -17.701944 |   24.013889 |
| 191 | Schmelenville Combined School  | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |    -26.5156 |     17.1586 |
| 192 | Schuckmansburg Combined School | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -17.55083 |    24.81444 |
| 193 | Shamangorwa Combined School    | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -17.961389 |   21.039167 |
| 194 | Shitemo Combined School        | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -17.98306 |    20.53722 |
| 195 | Sikubi Combined School         | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -17.745833 |   23.891944 |
| 196 | Tsintsabis Combined School     | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -18.77111 |    17.96194 |
| 197 | Tuguva Combined School         | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -17.42139 |    18.43972 |

|     | Name                                         | Description                    |   Lattitude |   Longitude |
|-----|----------------------------------------------|--------------------------------|-------------|-------------|
| 198 | Uuhahe Primary School                        | Combined:Grade 0 - 12          |   -17.78444 |    16.39028 |
| 199 | Uukuma Primary School                        | Combined:Grade 0 - 12          |  -18.240938 |   16.166122 |
| 200 | Uutsathima Combined School                   | Combined:Grade 0 - 12          |   -18.46722 |    14.82972 |
| 201 | Tsumkwe Combined School                      | Combined:Grade 0-12            |  -19.590074 |   20.501805 |
| 202 | Bethanien Health Centre                      | Health Centre                  |   -26.49937 |    17.14969 |
| 203 | Bunya Health Centre                          | Health Centre                  |  -17.859607 |     19.3574 |
| 204 | Mahenene Health Centre                       | Health Centre                  |   -17.45048 |   14.786381 |
| 205 | Mangetti Dune Health Centre                  | Health Centre                  |  -19.518774 |   19.735012 |
| 206 | Mpungu Health Centre                         | Health Centre                  |   -17.66507 |    18.23136 |
| 207 | Sesfontein Health Centre                     | Health Centre                  |   -19.12411 |    13.61323 |
| 208 | Sibbinda Health Centre                       | Health Centre                  |   -17.78509 |    23.82119 |
| 209 | Nyangana District Hospital                   | Hospital                       |   -18.00372 |   20.676525 |
| 210 | Epukiro Post 3 Junior Secondary School       | Junior Secondary: Grade 8 - 12 |  -21.601667 |     19.4175 |
| 211 | Otjiperongo Junior Secondary School          | Junior Secondary: Grade 8 - 12 |   -20.86472 |    15.57861 |
| 212 | Shedile Junior SecondarySchool               | Junior Secondary: Grade 8 - 12 |   -17.41806 |    15.47028 |
| 213 | Impalila Junior Secondary School             | Junior Secondary: Grade 8- 12  |  -17.777222 |   25.188611 |
| 214 | P.I. Groenewald Junior Secondary School      | Junior Secondary: Grade 8- 12  |  -24.861111 |   18.794722 |
| 215 | Oshikondailwa Junior Primary School          | Junior:Grade 0-10              |   -18.09006 |    16.94503 |
| 216 | Dibasen Junior Secondary School              | Senior Secondary: Grade 4 - 12 |  -21.365278 |    15.37444 |
| 217 | Ecumenical Community Senior Secondary School | Senior Secondary: Grade 8 - 12 |    -26.0019 |     17.7686 |
| 218 | Himarwa Iithete Junior Secondary School      | Senior Secondary: Grade 8 - 12 |  -17.678385 |   18.229697 |
| 219 | Linus Shashipapo Senior Secondary School     | Senior Secondary: Grade 8 - 12 |  -18.031667 |   20.789722 |
| 220 | Mafwila Senior Secondary School              | Senior Secondary: Grade 8 - 12 |  -17.920833 |   24.709722 |
| 221 | Mokganedi Tlhabanello High School            | Senior Secondary: Grade 8 - 12 |  -22.092222 |       19.05 |
| 222 | Negumbo Senior Secondary School              | Senior Secondary: Grade 8 - 12 |   -17.89627 |   15.347677 |
| 223 | Rev.Juuso Shikongo Secondary School          | Senior Secondary: Grade 8 - 12 |  -18.253196 |   16.233492 |
| 224 | Saint Charle Lwanga Secondary School         | Senior Secondary: Grade 8 - 12 |   -17.46722 |    14.81444 |

|     | Name                                | Description                    |   Lattitude |   Longitude |
|-----|-------------------------------------|--------------------------------|-------------|-------------|
| 225 | Sikosinyana Senior Secondary School | Senior Secondary: Grade 8 - 12 |     -17.785 |   23.823333 |
| 226 | Simataa Senior Secondary School     | Senior Secondary: Grade 8 - 12 |   -17.98833 |    24.11778 |
| 227 | Klein Aub Special School            | Technical: Prevocational       |  -23.794722 |   16.633889 |

## Institutions without 4G coverage covered by MTC USO

|    | Name                                  | Description                    |   Lattitude |   Longitude |
|----|---------------------------------------|--------------------------------|-------------|-------------|
|  1 | W.J.D. Cloete Junior Secondary School | Junior Secondary: Grade 8 - 12 |  -23.968333 |   16.557778 |
|  2 | EliasAmxab Combined School            | Combined: Grade 0 - 12         |   -19.12551 |   13.617809 |
|  3 | Etanga Clinic                         | Clinic                         |    -17.8677 |    13.02564 |
|  4 | Otjondeka Clinic                      | Clinic                         |    -18.6303 |    14.23431 |
|  5 | Rietoog Clinic                        | Clinic                         |  -23.967782 |   16.559829 |
|  6 | Ncaute Clinic                         | Clinic                         |   -18.37218 |    19.82942 |
|  7 | Max Makushe Senior Secondary School   | Senior Secondary: Grade 8 - 12 |  -17.991389 |    21.34333 |

## Institutions without 4G coverage that require a new RAN site

|    | Name                                | Description           |   Lattitude |   Longitude |
|----|-------------------------------------|-----------------------|-------------|-------------|
|  1 | Nakabolelwa Combined School         | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |     -17.825 |    24.83694 |
|  2 | Muzii Combined School               | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -17.644444 |   25.024167 |
|  3 | Masida Combined School              | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -17.85517 |     23.7052 |
|  4 | Sacona Combined School              | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -17.965556 |   23.446111 |
|  5 | Diyana Combined School              | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -18.018611 |   21.399167 |
|  6 | Neyuva Combined School              | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -17.905399 |   20.395774 |
|  7 | Namavambi Combined School           | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -17.815984 |   18.886804 |
|  8 | Yinsu Combined School               | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |  -17.804296 |   18.596926 |
|  9 | Simanya Combined School             | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |    -17.5325 |    18.52417 |
| 10 | Onashiye Junior Primary School      | Junior:Grade 0 - 10   |   -18.13606 |    17.45139 |
| 11 | Hamunyela Combined Primary School   | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -18.18611 |    16.56944 |
| 12 | Onamishu Combined School            | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -18.11139 |    16.81722 |
| 13 | Oshamono Combined School            | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |   -17.82389 |    16.59306 |
| 14 | Okandonga Primary School            | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |    -17.8767 |    16.64721 |
| 15 | Ohaimbada Combined School           | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |    -17.8403 |     16.7299 |
| 16 | Omutwewomhedi Junior Primary School | Combined:Grade 0 - 12 |    -17.8231 |   16.965977 |

|    | Name                               | Description                      |   Lattitude |   Longitude |
|----|------------------------------------|----------------------------------|-------------|-------------|
| 17 | Evale Combined School              | Combined:Grade 0 - 12            |  -18.079064 |   16.883508 |
| 18 | Lazarus Haufiku Combined School    | Combined:Grade 0 - 12            |  -17.413116 |   16.966208 |
| 19 | Shimbode Combined School           | Combined:Grade 0 - 12            |   -17.41173 |   16.438344 |
| 20 | Ondjabayonghalu Combined School    | Combined:Grade 0 - 12            |  -17.726062 |   16.818097 |
| 21 | Omahahi Combined School            | Combined:Grade 0 - 12            |   -17.76647 |    16.72288 |
| 22 | Niigambo Combined School           | Combined:Grade 0 - 12            |  -18.382753 |   16.411209 |
| 23 | Ehomba Primary School              | Combined:Grade 0 - 12            |   -17.49028 |    13.83111 |
| 24 | Ombombo Combined School            | Combined:Grade 0 - 12            |  -18.675023 |   13.927686 |
| 25 | Braunfels Agricultural High School | Agr.College: Agricultural School |   -20.42361 |    15.17972 |
| 26 | Sachona Clinic                     | Clinic                           |    -17.9661 |     23.4469 |
| 27 | Shadikongoro Clinic                | Clinic                           |  -18.015949 |   21.406619 |
| 28 | Muveve Clinic                      | Clinic                           |   -17.84691 |    19.22876 |
| 29 | Katjinakatji Clinic                | Clinic                           |   -18.52858 |    19.17922 |
| 30 | Gcwatjinga Clinic                  | Clinic                           |   -18.49805 |    19.74399 |
| 31 | Okarondu Clinic                    | Clinic                           |  -20.452613 |   17.777448 |
| 32 | Sikarosompo Clinic                 | Clinic                           |  -17.891802 |   18.515369 |
| 33 | Yinsu Clinic                       | Clinic                           |  -17.803462 |   18.579659 |
| 34 | Nzinze Clinic                      | Clinic                           |  -17.821051 |   18.902561 |
| 35 | Gcaruhwa Clinic                    | Clinic                           |  -18.009383 |   18.918701 |
| 36 | Hedimbi Clinic                     | Clinic                           |   -18.17646 |    17.20548 |
| 37 | Olukula Clinic                     | Clinic                           |  -17.464278 |   17.507924 |
| 38 | Epinga Clinic                      | Clinic                           |  -17.411461 |   16.437418 |
| 39 | Omuhongo Clinic                    | Clinic                           |   -17.82694 |     16.5925 |
| 40 | Onamishu Clinic                    | Clinic                           |  -18.108662 |   16.814148 |
| 41 | Amilema Clinic                     | Clinic                           |   -18.38143 |   16.414034 |
| 42 | Queen Sofia Clinic                 | Clinic                           |   -19.81253 |    16.68114 |
| 43 | Ongongo Clinic                     | Clinic                           |   -18.07071 |    13.39468 |
| 44 | Otjiu Clinic                       | Clinic                           |   -18.22937 |    13.27397 |
| 45 | Ombombo PHC Clinic                 | Clinic                           |   -18.68166 |    13.93694 |
| 46 | Okongwe Clinic                     | Clinic                           |   -20.67871 |   15.378637 |
| 47 | Daktari Rehab Centre               | Rehab Centre                     |  -20.764959 |   15.851196 |
| 48 | Gabis Clinic                       | Clinic                           |  -28.129063 |   18.594493 |
| 49 | Sedadic Clinic                     | Clinic                           |   -27.42732 |    15.40956 |

---