

## GOVERNMENT GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA

N$6.00

WINDHOEK - 15 July 2020

No. 7273

## CONTENTS

Page

| GENERALNOTICES   | GENERALNOTICES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |   GENERALNOTICES |
|------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------|
| No. 283          | Communication Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of Regulation 34(1) of the Regulations Prescribing Procedures Regarding Application for, and Amendment, Renewal, Transfer and cancellation of spectrum Licenses: Communication Act, 2009                                    |                2 |
| No. 284          | Communication Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of regulation 19(1) of the Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences: Communication act 2009                     |                2 |
| No. 285          | Communication Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of Regulations 34(1) prescribing Procedures Regarding Application for, and Amendment, Renewal, Transfer and Cancellation of Spectrum Licenses: Communications Act, 2009              |                3 |
| No. 286          | Communication Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations Regarding the Submissions of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs                                                                                                                      |                3 |
| No. 287          | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of regulation 7 of the Regulations Regarding Rule-Making Procedure: Communications Act, 2009                                                                                                                            |                5 |
| No. 288          | Communication Regulatory of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations Prescribing the National Numbering Plan for use in the Provision of Telecommunications Services in the Republic of Namibia, Numbering Licence Fees and Procedures for Number Licences: Communications Act, 2009                                             |                6 |
| No. 289          | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of Regulation 19(1) of the Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences: Communications Act, 2009   |                7 |

---

No. 283

NOTICE IN TERMS OF REGULATION 34(1) OF THE REGULATIONS PRESCRIBING PROCEDURES REGARDING APPLICATION FOR, AND AMENDMENT, RENEWAL, TRANSFER AND CANCELLATION OF SPECTRUM LICENSES: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009.

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of regulation 34(1) of the Regulations Prescribing Procedures Regarding Application for, and Amendment, Renewal, Transfer and Cancellation of Spectrum Licenses, published as General Notice No. 104, Government Gazette No. 6888, on 29 April 2019, hereby gives notice of the following decisions:

- a) The Authority resolved to extend the temporary spectrum licence awarded to Mobile Telecommunications Limited on 11 April 2020 until 20 August 2020 as set out below:
- b) The Authority resolved to approve the withdrawal of spectrum licences awarded to Mwireless (Pty) Ltd for the provision of fixed broadband wireless Access (Point-to-MultiPoint) services:
- i) 3366 - 3400 MHz (Uplink) with bandwidth of 34 MHz; and
4. ii) 3316 - 3350 MHz (Downlink) with bandwidth of 34 MHz.

| Group of frequencies                                    | Geographical coverage Area   | Services to be provided   |
|---------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------|---------------------------|
| 885-890 MHz (uplink) paired with 930-935 MHz (downlink) | Republic of Namibia          | MOBILE (IMT)              |

The full reasons for the decisions can be requested from the Authority. In terms of section 31 of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No.8 of 2009), the Authority may, on its own motion or on a petition filed by an aggrieved party to any proceedings, reconsider any order or decision that it has made, within 90 days from the date of this Notice.

**H. M. GAOMAB II**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

## COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

No. 284

NOTICE IN TERMS OF REGULATION 19(1) OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING LICENSING PROCEDURES FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND BROADCASTING SERVICE LICENCES: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009.

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms Regulation 19(1) of the Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences, published in Government Gazette No. 4785, General Notice No. 272, dated 29 August 2011 (as amended), hereby gives notice of the following decisions:

## General Notices

- a) The Authority resolved to award a Class Non-Profit (ECNS) Telecommunications Service Licence to Olympia Neighbourhood Watch.
- b) The Authority resolved to approve the request for extension of period to commence services, as submitted by Capricorn Connect (Pty) Ltd , for a further period of twelve (12) months.

The decisions are effective from date of this Notice. The full reasons for the decisions can be requested from the Authority. In terms of section 31 of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009), the Authority may, on its own motion or on a petition filed by an aggrieved party to any proceedings, reconsider any order or decision that it has made, within 90 days from the date of this Notice.

**H. M. GAOMAB II**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

No. 285

NOTICE IN TERMS OF REGULATION 34(1) OF THE REGULATIONS PRESCRIBING PROCEDURES REGARDING APPLICATION FOR, AND AMENDMENT, RENEWAL, TRANSFER AND CANCELLATION OF SPECTRUM LICENSES: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009.

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of regulation 34(1) of the Regulations Prescribing Procedures Regarding Application for, and Amendment, Renewal, Transfer and Cancellation of Spectrum Licenses, published as General Notice No. 104, Government Gazette No. 6888, on 29 April 2019, hereby gives notice of the following decision:

- a) The Authority resolved to approve an application for amendment of the spectrum licence of Telecom Namibia Limited, to authorize the utilization of a contiguous block of 40 MHz spectrum (2308-2348MHz) for IMT services within the entire boundaries of the Republic of Namibia subject to the spectrum license conditions.

The full reasons for the decisions can be requested from the Authority.

**H. M. GAOMAB II**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

No. 286

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING THE SUBMISSIONS OF INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENTS AND TARIFFS

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of Section 53(10) of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009) read with regulation 8(1) of the 'Regulations Regarding the Submission of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs', in Government Gazette No. 4714, General Notice No. 126, dated 18 May 2011, herewith gives notice that Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd has filed a tariff with the Authority as set out in Schedule 1.

Any person may examine copies of the tariffs submitted at the head offices of the Authority during normal business hours and copies may be made on payment of a fee determined by the Authority. Copies are also available at www.cran.na where copies may be downloaded free of charge.

The public may submit in writing to the Authority written comments within fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this Notice in the Gazette .

Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd may submit, in writing to the Authority, a response to any written comments within fourteen (14) days from the lapsing of the time to submit written submissions.

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submissions is made, if different and be clear and concise.

All written submissions and reply comments must be made either physically or electronically -

- (1) by hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (2) by post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek 9000;
- (3) by electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na;
- (4) by facsimile to the following facsimile number: +264 61 222790; and
- (5) by fax to e-mail to: 0886550852.

**J. TRAUT**  
ACTING CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

## SCHEDULE 1

## SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED GPON/INFINITY PACKAGES BY PARATUS TELECOMMUNICATIONS: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

| Name              | Download up to   | CAPLimit   | Reseller N$   | Retail N$   |
|-------------------|------------------|------------|---------------|-------------|
| Infinity Fiber 30 | 30Mbps           | UNCAPPED   | -             | 1 499       |
| Infinity Fiber 60 | 60Mbps           | UNCAPPED   | 3 099         | 3 499       |
| Infinity Fiber 90 | 90Mbps           | UNCAPPED   | 5 699         | 6 499       |
| MegaStarters      | 10Mbps           | 1TB FUP    | 730           | 785         |
| Mega              | 25Mbps           | 1TB FUP    | 975           | 1 120       |
| Giga              | 50Mbps           | 1TB FUP    | 3 002         | 3 335       |
| Tera              | 100Mbps          | 1TB FUP    | 5 800         | 6 290       |

- Pricing is based on a 24 month contract and excludes VAT,
- Services are only available where Paratus have network coverage,
- Standard fair usage will apply to packages that have CAP limit. This will be made available to customers upon request.

---

No. 287

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF REGULATION 7 OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING RULE-MAKING PROCEDURE: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia in terms of regulation 7 of the Regulations Regarding Rule-Making Procedures published under Government Gazette No. 4630, General Notice No. 334, dated 17 December 2010, herewith gives notice that it will hold a public hearing regarding:

1. Regulations Prescribing Fees for Spectrum Licences, Certificates and Examinations as published in Government Gazette No. 7216, General Notice No. 187, dated 19 May 2020; and
2. Market Study on Determination of Dominance Position in the Telecommunications Sector as published in Government Gazette No. 7156, General Notice No. 105, dated 27 March 2020.

DATE:

29 July 2020

TIME:

08H00-12H00

VENUE:

Namibian Institute of Public Administration and Management (NIPAM)

Members of the public are invited to make oral submissions at the aforesaid public hearing subject to the following:

1. Any person desirous to make oral submissions at the aforesaid public hearing must deliver written notice thereof to the Authority not later than 5 days before the date of the hearing. Such written notice must be accompanied by concise statement setting out the basis and rationale of the oral submissions.
2. Oral submissions made at the aforesaid public hearing must -
- (a) Include a statement of the name and contact details of the person making the oral submissions and the name and contact details of the person of entity on whose behalf the oral submissions are made, if different;
- (b) Be clear and concise.
3. The aforesaid notice of oral submissions and concise statement must be delivered to the Authority either physically or electronically as follows:
- (a) By hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communications House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (b) By post to the head offices of the Authority namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek;
- (c) By electronic mail to the following address legal@cran.na;
- (d) By facsimile to the following facsimile number +264 61 222 790; or
- (e) By fax to email to: 088642748.

## COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMD3IA

**H. M. GAOMAB II**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

No. 288

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS PRESCRIBING THE NATIONAL NUMBERING PLAN FOR USE IN THE PROVISION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES IN THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA, NUMBERING LICENCE FEES AND PROCEDURES FOR NUMBER LICENCES: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia in terms of Regulation 18 of the Regulations regarding the National Numbering Plan for Namibia for use in the provision of Telecommunications Services in the Republic of Namibia, Numbering Licence Fees and Procedures for Number Licences as published in Government Gazette No. 5983, General Notice No. 97 dated 1 April 2016, herewith gives notice that the Applicant referred to in the table below, submitted application for number licence to the Authority:

| Applicant                     | Applicant's Citizenship or place of incorporation   | Percentage of Stock owned by Namibian Citizens   | Number Category                                       | Number of Blocks considered to be awarded by the Authority   | Description of geographic coverage area   | Service to be provided using numbers applied for   |
|-------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|
| Focus Engineering Services CC | Namibia                                               | 100%                                             | Electronic Communications (82 1000 1000 - 821999 999) | 1 block (100,000 numbers)                                    | National                                  | Electronic Communications                          |

The public may submit comments in writing to the Authority within a period of fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this Notice in the Gazette.

The applicant may submit written reply comments within fourteen (14) days from the due date of the written public comments.

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submission is made, fi different and be clear and concise.

All written submissions and reply comments must be made either physically or electronically -

- (1) By hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (2) By post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek 9000;
- (3) By electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na;
- (4) By facsimile to the following facsimile number: +264 61 222790; or
- (5) By fax to e-mail to: 088642748.

**J. TRAUT**  
ACTING CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

No. 289

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF REGULATION 19(1) OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING LICENSING PROCEDURES FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND BROADCASTING SERVICE LICENCES: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia in terms of regulation 11 of the Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences, as published in Government Gazette No. 4785, General Notice No. 272, on 29 August 2011, herewith gives notice that the Applicants listed in the tables below submitted the following applications:

## 1. Application for Renewal of Broadcasting Service License

| Applicant   | Applicant's place of incorporation   | Percentage of Stock owned by Namibian Citizens   | Category of Broadcasting service licence   | Provision of signal distribution   | Application fees paid   |
|-------------|--------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|------------------------------------|-------------------------|
| Shipi FM    | Namibian                             | 100%                                             | Community Broadcasting Service             | Own                                | Yes                     |

## 2. Application for Class Network Facilities Service License

| Applicant                        | Applicant's place of incorporation   | Percentage of Stock owned by Namibian Citizens or Namibian citizens or Namibian Companies controlled by Namibian Citizens   | Category of Licence applied for          | Concise statement on Services intended to be provided   | Description of geographic coverage area   | Licence Application Fees Paid   |
|----------------------------------|--------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|---------------------------------|
| Tulive Private Equity (Pty) Ltd. | Namibia                              | 100%                                                                                                                        | Class Network Facilities Service Licence | Network facilities                                      | Republic of Namibia                       | Yes                             |

The public may submit comments in writing to the Authority within a period of fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette.

The Applicant may submit written reply comments within fourteen (14) days from the due date of the written public comments.

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submission is made, fi different and be clear and concise.

All written submissions and reply comments must be made either physically or electronically by -

- (a) Hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (b) Post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek 9000;
- (c) Electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na;
- (d) Facsimile to the following facsimile number: +264 61 222790; or
- (e) Fax to e-mail to: 088642748.

**J. TRAUT**  
ACTING CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
---