

## GOVERNMENT GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA

N$14.40

WINDHOEK - 1 April 2020

No. 7162

## CONTENTS

Page

## GENERAL NOTICE

No. 106 Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice of intention to make Regulations Prescribing Reporting Obligations for Licensees 

---

## General Notice

## COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

No. 106

## NOTICE OF INTENTION TO MAKE REGULATIONS PRESCRIBING REPORTING OBLIGATIONS FOR LICENSEES

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia (hereafter 'the Authority') in terms of regulation 4(3) of the Regulations Regarding Rule-Making Procedures published as General Notice No. 334 of 17 December 2010 (hereafter 'the Regulations Regarding Rule-Making Procedures') publishes this notice of intention to make 'Regulations Prescribing Reporting Obligations for Licensees' which contains the following:

1. A concise statement of the purpose for the proposed Regulations as set out in Schedule 1;
2. A draft of the proposed Regulations as set out in Schedule 2.

Members of the public are invited to make written submissions to the Authority no later than 30 days from the date of publication of this notice of intention to make regulations, in the manner set out below for making written submissions.

Reply comments to written submissions may be submitted to the Authority.

- (a) no later than 15 days after the time for the making of written submissions has lapsed; or
- (b) if the opportunity for the submission of reply comments is published in a subsequent Gazette, after the lapse of 14 days from the date of such publication.

All written submissions must -

- (a) contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person or entity on whose behalf the written submissions are made, if different; and
- (b) be clear and concise.

All written submissions must be delivered to the Authority in the manner provided above for the delivery of notices of oral submissions.

**H. M. GAOMAB II**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

## SCHEDULE 1

## CONCISE STATEMENT OF PURPOSE

The objects of the proposed Regulations are to -

- (a) establish an integrated reporting framework within which holders of telecommunications licenses, broadcasting licenses and postal licenses must submit information required by the Authority to discharge its regulatory functions under the Act; and
- (b) harmonise data collection activities of the Authority.

## SCHEDULE 2

## PROPOSED REGULATIONS PRESCRIBING REGULATIONS ON REPORTING OBLIGATIONS FOR LICENSEES: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia in terms of section 129(1)(f) of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009) -

- (a) makes the Regulations set out in the Schedule.
- (b) repeals the Regulations Setting Out Cost Accounting Procedures and Reporting Requirements, which were published under General Notice No. 474 of 6 December 2013.

1. Definitions
2. Objects and application of Regulations
3. Submission of documents to the Authority

## PART 2

## SUBMISSION OF ANNUAL RETURNS, QUARTERLY COMPLIANCE REPORTS AND OTHER INFORMATION

4. Submission of annual returns
5. Submission of annual audited segmentation reports
6. Submission of quarterly compliance reports
7. Submission of ad hoc reports
8. Submission of further information
9. Retention of annual returns and quarterly reports

## PART 3 ITU INDICATORS

## PART 4 GENERAL

10. Adherence to ITU indicators
11. Publishing of information
12. Condonation
13. Failure to submit information

## PART 1 INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS

## Definitions

1. In these Regulations, any word or expression to which a meaning is assigned in the Act has that meaning, and -
2. 'Act' means the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009);
3. 'broadcasting licensee' means the holder of a broadcasting license issued in terms of the Act;
4. 'data portal' means the electronic interface found on the landing page of the official website of the Authority by means of which licensees are required to submit reports and other information required by the Authority;
5. 'ITU' refers to the International Telecommunications Union, which is the United Nations specialised agency for information and communications technologies;
6. 'licensee' means a broadcasting licensee, postal licensee or a telecommunications licensee;

## SCHEDULE

## ARRANGEMENT OF REGULATIONS

## PART 1 INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS

'official website of the Authority' is the website with URL https://www.cran.na;

'postal licensee' means the holder of a postal license issued in terms of the Act;

'telecommunications licensee' means the holder of a telecommunications license issued in terms of the Act.

## Objects and application of Regulations

2. (1) The objects of these Regulations are to-
- (a) harmonise all data collection activities by the Authority; and
- (b) make provision for the method of collecting data through the data portal.
- (2) These Regulations apply to all licensees.

## Submission of documents to the Authority

3. A person permitted or called upon to submit information to the Authority must do so electronically via the data portal in accordance with these Regulations.

## SUBMISSION OF ANNUAL RETURNS, QUARTERLY COMPLIANCE REPORTS AND

## Submission of annual returns

4. Every licensee must within a period agreed with the Authority but no later than six months after the end of its financial year upload its audited annual financial statements in electronic format via the data portal.

## Submission of quarterly revenue and expense segmentation reports

5. (1) Every telecommunications licensee must upload via the data portal a quarterly revenue and expense segmentation report complying with the data requirements contained in Annexure A .
- (2) Every telecommunications licensee must annually after the finalisation of its annual financial statements referred to in regulation 4 correlate and align its quarterly revenue and expense segmentation reports for the financial year in question with its annual financial statements for that year, to ensure reliable indicators and the monitoring of sector performance.
- (3) If the audited annual financial statements of a telecommunications licensee are restated for any reason, that licensee's annual revenue and expense segmentation report must again be uploaded on the data portal, if such restatement necessitates the amendment of that segmentation report.
- (4) A licensee who provides telecommunications services but not as its main business activity must have mechanisms in place to ensure that the data requested by the Authority in terms of this regulation is separate from its other business and audited by a person duly registered as an accountant and auditor under the Public Accountants and Auditors Act, 1951 (Act No. 51 of 1951).

## PART 2 OTHER INFORMATION

## Submission of quarterly compliance reports

6. (1) Every broadcasting licensee must upload via the data portal a quarterly report on broadcasting services complying with the data requirements contained in Annexure B .

- (2) The Namibian Broadcasting Corporation referred to in section 93 of the Act must upload via the data portal a quarterly report on broadcasting services complying with the data requirements contained in Annexure C .

- (3) A subscription broadcasting licensee other than the Namibian Broadcasting Corporation must upload via the data portal a quarterly report on broadcasting services complying with the data requirements contained in Annexure D .

- (4) Every postal licensee must upload via the data portal a quarterly report complying with the data requirements contained in Annexure E .

- (5) Every telecommunications licensee must upload via the data portal a quarterly report complying with the data requirements contained in Annexure F containing -

- (a) subscriber information;

- (b) traffic in minutes (billable and bundled);

- (c) employment information;

- (d) quality of service information;

- (e) infrastructure information;

- (f) base station information; and

- (g) point-to-point or multipoint wireless or fixed links.

- (6) All licensees must upload via the data portal statistics on its information and communication technologies complying with the data requirements contained in Annexure G .

- (7) The reports referred to in this regulation must be uploaded via the data portal on or before the last day of April, July and October in each year and January of the following year and must contain the information required in respect of the preceding three months.

- (8) For purposes of subregulations (1), (2) and (3), 'broadcasting services' means services rendered under a commercial broadcasting license, community broadcasting license, a public broadcasting license, signal distribution broadcasting license or a multiplex broadcasting license, as the case may be.

## Submission of ad hoc reports

7. (1) The Authority may, while carrying out its obligations in terms of the Act, require a licensee to provide reports to enable the Authority to -

- (a) monitor and enforce spectrum utilisation, consumer protection, quality of service requirements, fair competition, compliance with licence conditions or other requirements of the Act;

- (b) collect and compile information to be used for purposes of sectoral analysis, planning, reporting and conducting inquiries;

- (2) The Authority must provide to a licensee referred to in subregulation (1) detailed specifications of its data request, applicable response times and a contact person to whom queries may be addressed.
- (3) Such licensee must provide any report referred to in subregulation (1) in the manner and in accordance with the format determined by the Authority.

## Submission of further information

8. Licensees must submit any additional information requested by the Authority to verify or clarify cost accounting information within thirty (30) days from receiving the request from the Authority.

## Retention of annual returns and quarterly reports

9. All licensees must retain reports and returns obtained in terms of these Regulation for a minimum of 36 months after the end of the reporting period, or for a time period as may be directed by the Authority.

## PART 3 ITU INDICATORS

## Adherence to ITU indicators

10. (1) As part of the international obligations of the Republic of Namibia the Authority must adhere to and cause licensees, where applicable to comply with the information and communication technologies indicators published periodically by the ITU.
- (2) The information and communication technologies indicators currently applicable are specified in Annexure H and the Authority must substitute Annexure H whenever those indicators are amended or repealed by the ITU.
- (3) Where applicable and where indicated on any return or report required in terms of these Regulations, a licensee must report in accordance with those information and communication technologies indicators contained in Annexure H, in the manner and complying with such data requirements provided for in such return or report.

## PART 4 GENERAL

## Publishing of information

11. (1) Subject to the provisions of section 27 and 28 of the Act and subregulation (2) and (3) the Authority may publish in any format and in the manner that the Authority deems reasonably appropriate, information obtained because of the submission of any return or report in terms of these Regulations.
- (2) A licensee may request the Authority to treat any information contained in a report or return submitted in terms of these Regulations as confidential commercial information that may not be disclosed to third parties other than appropriate government agencies, in which event section 28 of the Act applies.
- (3) Notwithstanding subregulation (1), the Authority must consult with a licensee before publishing any information referred to in that subregulation, which may be confidential commercial information of or regarding that licensee.

## Condonation

12. (1) If a licensee is unable to comply with any period set out in these Regulations, it may request from the Authority for an extension of at least seven days prior to the time set out or within any other time agreed by the Authority upon good cause shown.
- (2) The Authority must respond to the request for condonation as soon as practicable, and may in its sole discretion either grant or deny the request taking into account the nature and the reasons for non-compliance with the time set out.

## Failure to submit information

13. (1) If a licensee fails to submit any return or reports required in terms of these Regulations, the Authority may -
- (a) issue a written request for submission of outstanding information within 30 days; or
- (b) require the licensee to implement a remedial plan within a time frame agreed with the Authority and again submit the outstanding or additional information to the Authority.
- (2) If after the measures set out in subsection (1) above, the licensee still fails to submit the information requested, the Authority will deal with the matter in terms of section 114, 115 and 116 of the Act.

## ANNEXURE A

(Regulation 5(1))

## Data requirements for quarterly segmentation reports by telecommunications licensees:

| QUARTERLYDATA      |                                              |
|--------------------|----------------------------------------------|
| Revenues           |                                              |
| Mobile             | Revenues Mobile Data                         |
|                    | Revenues Mobile Voice Domestic               |
|                    | Revenue Mobile Voice International           |
|                    | Revenues SMS Domestic                        |
|                    | Revenues SMS International non SADC          |
|                    | Revenues SMS International SADC              |
| Landline and VOIP  | Revenue Fixed line rental                    |
|                    | Revenue Fixed line Voice domestic            |
|                    | Revenue Fixed line Voice International       |
|                    | Revenue VOIP Voice domestic                  |
|                    | Revenue VOIP Voice International             |
| Data and Bandwidth | Revenue DataADSL                             |
|                    | Revenue Data Fixed Wireless                  |
|                    | Revenue Data FTTX                            |
|                    | Revenue Data Leased lines and Ethernet       |
|                    | Revenue National Data Transmission Retail    |
|                    | Revenue National Data Transmission Wholesale |
|                    | Revenue Other Fixed Data connectivity        |
|                    | Revenue VSAT                                 |
| Infrastructure     | Revenue Other Infrastructure                 |
|                    | Revenue Tower Colocation                     |
| Expenses           | Expenses ADSLLinks                           |
|                    | Expenses International data capacity         |
|                    | Expenses other purchased data capacity       |
|                    | Expenses Purchased leased line capacity      |

## ANNEXURE B

(Regulation 6(1))

## Data requirements for quarterly report on broadcasting services by broadcasting licensees:

| QUARTERLYDATA                    |                                                                  |
|----------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Revenue                          | Advertisements                                                   |
|                                  | Sponsorships                                                     |
|                                  | Decoder sales                                                    |
|                                  | Infrastructure sharing                                           |
|                                  | SMS short codes                                                  |
|                                  | Subscription fees                                                |
|                                  | Other broadcasting related                                       |
|                                  | Other non-broadcasting related                                   |
| Expenses                         | Signal distribution terrestrial                                  |
|                                  | Signal distribution satellite                                    |
|                                  | Decoders and end-user equipment                                  |
|                                  | Programming fees international content                           |
|                                  | Programming fees local content                                   |
|                                  | Studio Cost                                                      |
|                                  | Local Content Production Costs                                   |
|                                  | Other                                                            |
| Investment                       | Property and plant                                               |
|                                  | Satellite transmission infrastructure                            |
|                                  | Terrestrial transmission infrastructure                          |
| Subscribers                      | Digital mobile                                                   |
|                                  | Digital terrestrial                                              |
|                                  | Satellite tv                                                     |
| Content                          | Share of Namibian music played of total music broadcasted        |
|                                  | Share of local news played of total news broadcasted             |
|                                  | Share of local programmes played of total programmes played      |
| Staff                            | Full time women                                                  |
|                                  | Full time disabled                                               |
|                                  | Full time expatriates (excluding permanent residence)            |
|                                  | Part-time                                                        |
|                                  | Contract and semi-permanent                                      |
| Quality or service               |                                                                  |
| Number of complaints received on | Advertisement                                                    |
|                                  | Content                                                          |
|                                  | Billing                                                          |
|                                  | Reception/signal                                                 |
|                                  | Supply time for subscription-based television service connection |
|                                  | Customer/Licensee complaint resolution time                      |

## ANNEXURE C

(Regulation 6(2))

## Data requirements for quarterly report on broadcasting services by Namibian Broadcasting Corporation:

| Revenue                          | Advertisements                                                   |
|----------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------|
|                                  | Sponsorships                                                     |
|                                  | Decoder sales                                                    |
|                                  | Infrastructure sharing                                           |
|                                  | SMS short codes                                                  |
|                                  | Subscription fees                                                |
|                                  | Other broadcasting related                                       |
|                                  | Other non-broadcasting related                                   |
| Expenses                         | Signal distribution terrestrial                                  |
|                                  | Signal distribution satellite                                    |
|                                  | Decoders and end-user equipment                                  |
|                                  | Programming fees international content                           |
|                                  | Programming fees local content                                   |
|                                  | Studio Cost                                                      |
|                                  | Local Content Production Costs                                   |
|                                  | Other                                                            |
| Investment                       | Property and plant                                               |
|                                  | Satellite transmission infrastructure                            |
|                                  | Terrestrial transmission infrastructure                          |
| Subscribers                      | Digital mobile                                                   |
|                                  | Digital terrestrial                                              |
|                                  | Satellite tv                                                     |
| Content                          | Share of Namibian music played of total music broadcasted        |
|                                  | Share of local news played of total news broadcasted             |
|                                  | Share of local programmes played of total programmes played      |
| Staff                            | Full time women                                                  |
|                                  | Full time disabled                                               |
|                                  | Full time expatriates (excluding permanent residence)            |
|                                  | Part-time                                                        |
|                                  | Contract and semi-permanent                                      |
| Quality or service               |                                                                  |
| Number of complaints received on | Advertisement                                                    |
|                                  | Content                                                          |
|                                  | Billing                                                          |
|                                  | Reception/signal                                                 |
|                                  | Supply time for subscription-based television service connection |
|                                  | Customer/Licensee complaint resolution time                      |

## ANNEXURE D

(Regulation 6(3))

## Data requirements for quarterly report on broadcasting services by a subscription broadcasting licensee other than the Namibian Broadcasting Corporation:

| Revenue                          | Advertisements                                                   |
|----------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------|
|                                  | Sponsorships                                                     |
|                                  | Decoder sales                                                    |
|                                  | Infrastructure sharing                                           |
|                                  | SMS short codes                                                  |
|                                  | Subscription fees                                                |
|                                  | Other broadcasting related                                       |
|                                  | Other non-broadcasting related                                   |
| Expenses                         | Signal distribution terrestrial                                  |
|                                  | Signal distribution satellite                                    |
|                                  | Decoders and end-user equipment                                  |
|                                  | Programming fees international content                           |
|                                  | Programming fees local content                                   |
|                                  | Studio Cost                                                      |
|                                  | Local Content Production Costs                                   |
|                                  | Other                                                            |
| Investment                       | Property and plant                                               |
|                                  | Satellite transmission infrastructure                            |
|                                  | Terrestrial transmission infrastructure                          |
| Subscribers                      | Digital mobile                                                   |
|                                  | Digital terrestrial                                              |
|                                  | Satellite tv                                                     |
| Content                          | Share of Namibian music played of total music broadcasted        |
|                                  | Share of local news played of total news broadcasted             |
|                                  | Share of local programmes played of total programmes played      |
| Staff                            | Full time women                                                  |
|                                  | Full time disabled                                               |
|                                  | Full time expatriates (excluding permanent residence)            |
|                                  | Part-time                                                        |
|                                  | Contract and semi-permanent                                      |
| Quality or service               |                                                                  |
| Number of complaints received on | Advertisement                                                    |
|                                  | Content                                                          |
|                                  | Billing                                                          |
|                                  | Reception/signal                                                 |
|                                  | Supply time for subscription-based television service connection |
|                                  | Customer/Licensee complaint resolution time                      |

## ANNEXURE E

(Regulation 6(4))

## Data requirements for quarterly report by postal licensees:

| QUARTERLYDATA                |                                                                             |
|------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Employment                   | Employment contract semi-permanent                                          |
|                              | Employment disabled fulltime                                                |
|                              | Employment female fulltime                                                  |
|                              | Employment female management                                                |
|                              | Employment fulltime                                                         |
|                              | Employment part-time                                                        |
|                              | Staff productivity level (Items sorted per gross staff hour)                |
|                              | Total Number of staff                                                       |
|                              | Number of staff in operations                                               |
| Revenue                      | Postal items                                                                |
|                              | Letter post                                                                 |
|                              | Parcels and express                                                         |
|                              | Postal financial services                                                   |
|                              | Other income                                                                |
| Postal Access and Deliveries | Number of inhabitants per permanent post offices by region                  |
|                              | Maximum distance/Traveling time to a permanent post office                  |
|                              | %of the population within 5 Km of a post office by region                   |
|                              | %of the population within 10 Km of a post office by region                  |
|                              | Number of inhabitants per postal agency by region                           |
|                              | Maximum distance /Traveling time within 5Km of a postal agency by Region    |
|                              | %of the population within 10 km of a postal agency by region                |
|                              | Number of post offices accepting financial transactions                     |
|                              | Number of post offices offering public internet services                    |
|                              | Number of postal establishments not open to the public i.e. sorting centres |
|                              | Number of private letter boxes                                              |
|                              | Number of private bags                                                      |
|                              | Number of post offices in remote areas including, mobile post offices       |
|                              | Number of ordinary mail deliveries per working day in rural areas           |
|                              | Number of ordinary mail deliveries per working day in urban areas           |
| POBoxes                      | Number of Post Boxes installed at location by location                      |
|                              | Number of Post boxes rented by location                                     |
|                              | Number of applicants on waitlist for Post boxes by location                 |
|                              | Longest date for applicant on waiting list for post box                     |
| Delivery times               | %of standard national mail items delivered within 3 working days of posting |

|                                                                                                                       | %of standard national mail items for an address in the town of posting delivered within 2 working days   |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|                                                                                                                       | %of items that suffered loss, damage or abstraction                                                      |
| Customer Complaints                                                                                                   | Number and nature of customer complaints                                                                 |
|                                                                                                                       | Total number of repeated complaints (i.e. by the same customer                                           |
|                                                                                                                       | Average handling time for customer complaints                                                            |
|                                                                                                                       | % of complaint resolved to customers satisfaction by the licensee                                        |
| Safety and Security                                                                                                   | Number of items opened in accordance with authorisation                                                  |
|                                                                                                                       | Number of incidents investigated by postal security unit                                                 |
|                                                                                                                       | Total number of lost items (from customer complaints data)                                               |
|                                                                                                                       | Number of lost time accidents involving the licensee's staff                                             |
| Postal Financial Services                                                                                             | Government Payments                                                                                      |
| Domestic Services - Total Number sent in manual form, electronic means/other means                                    | Bills                                                                                                    |
|                                                                                                                       | Money orders                                                                                             |
| International Dispatch - Total Number sent in manual form, electronic means or other Communications methods           | Number of payments                                                                                       |
| International Receipt - Total Number of payments sent in manual form, electronic means or other Communication methods | Number of payments                                                                                       |
| Savings Bank                                                                                                          | Number of post offices providing this service                                                            |
|                                                                                                                       | Number of post offices not providing this service                                                        |
|                                                                                                                       | Number of post offices providing this service in cooperation with other institutions                     |
|                                                                                                                       | Number of Business Accounts held                                                                         |
| Collections                                                                                                           | Collections from letter boxes not attached to post offices per working day in urban areas                |
|                                                                                                                       | Collections from letter boxes not attached to post offices per week in rural areas                       |
|                                                                                                                       | Number of boxes sited in streets and in post offices                                                     |
|                                                                                                                       | Number of letter boxes sited in shopping centres.                                                        |
| Letter-Post Communications Products                                                                                   |                                                                                                          |
| Letter -Post items                                                                                                    | Weight of domestic letter post items                                                                     |
|                                                                                                                       | Weight of international letter post items (receipt)                                                      |
|                                                                                                                       | Weight of international letter post items (dispatch)                                                     |
| Connectivity                                                                                                          | Permanent post offices using counter automation systems                                                  |
|                                                                                                                       | Number of post offices with broadband Internet access                                                    |

|                                       | Number of post offices providing Internet access points     |
|---------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|
|                                       | Number of post offices not providing Internet Access Points |
|                                       | Number of post offices without Broadband connectivity       |
| Quality of Service                    | Delivery Standard for Mail within a town                    |
|                                       | Delivery standard for Mail from town to town                |
|                                       | Delivery standard for International dispatchers             |
| Financial performance /Expenses       | Gross annual turnover                                       |
|                                       | Taxes                                                       |
|                                       | VAT                                                         |
|                                       | PAYE                                                        |
|                                       | Subsidies received                                          |
| Domestic Postal Traffic               | Parcel post volumes                                         |
|                                       | Letter post volumes                                         |
| Selected International postal traffic | trends                                                      |
| SADC Incoming Mail                    | EMS Volumes                                                 |
|                                       | Letter post Volumes                                         |
|                                       | Parcel Post Volumes                                         |
| SADC Outgoing Mail                    | EMS Volumes                                                 |
|                                       | Letter post Volumes                                         |
|                                       | Parcel Post Volumes                                         |
| Rest of the World incoming mail       | EMS Volumes                                                 |
|                                       | Letter post Volumes                                         |
|                                       | Parcel Post Volumes                                         |
| Rest of the World outgoing mail       | EMS Volumes                                                 |
|                                       | Letter post Volumes                                         |
|                                       | Parcel Post Volumes                                         |

| Financial performance /Expenses      | Gross annual turnover                  |                                        |                                        |
|--------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|
|                                      | Taxes                                  |                                        |                                        |
|                                      | VAT                                    |                                        |                                        |
|                                      | PAYE                                   |                                        |                                        |
|                                      | Subsidies received                     |                                        |                                        |
|                                      | Excise                                 |                                        |                                        |
| Revenue Contribution Per Service (%) | Letter post                            | Letter post                            | Letter post                            |
|                                      | Parcel, express and logistics services | Parcel, express and logistics services | Parcel, express and logistics services |
|                                      | Postal financial services              | Postal financial services              | Postal financial services              |
|                                      | Other income                           | Other income                           | Other income                           |
| Tariffs (weight per category)        | Letter mail (up to 50 g)               |                                        |                                        |

|                            | Fast mail (Priority mail up to 50 g)   |                                    |                            |
|----------------------------|----------------------------------------|------------------------------------|----------------------------|
|                            | Printed matters domestic               |                                    |                            |
|                            | Up to 250 g                            |                                    |                            |
|                            | 251 g up to 500 g                      |                                    |                            |
|                            | 501 g up to 750 g                      |                                    |                            |
|                            | 701 g up to 1 kg                       |                                    |                            |
| Postal Parcels             | ZONE 1A( up to 250 Km)                 | Zone B (251 -                      | Zone C (above              |
|                            |                                        | 700 km)                            | 700 km                     |
| 5 kg                       |                                        |                                    |                            |
| 6kg                        |                                        |                                    |                            |
| 7kg                        |                                        |                                    |                            |
| 8kg                        |                                        |                                    |                            |
| 9kg                        |                                        |                                    |                            |
| 10kg                       |                                        |                                    |                            |
| 11kg                       |                                        |                                    |                            |
| 12kg                       |                                        |                                    |                            |
| 13kg                       |                                        |                                    |                            |
| 14kg                       |                                        |                                    |                            |
| 15kg                       |                                        |                                    |                            |
| 17kg                       |                                        |                                    |                            |
| 18kg                       |                                        |                                    |                            |
| 19kg                       |                                        |                                    |                            |
| 20kg                       |                                        |                                    |                            |
| EMSTariffs                 | ZoneA(SADC including Madagascar )      | Zone B (Rest of Africa and Europe) | Zone C (Rest of the world) |
| Documents                  |                                        |                                    |                            |
| 0.5 kg                     |                                        |                                    |                            |
| Parcels (merchandise mail) |                                        |                                    |                            |
| 0.5 kg                     |                                        |                                    |                            |
| 1 kg                       |                                        |                                    |                            |
| 2 kg                       |                                        |                                    |                            |
| 3kg                        |                                        |                                    |                            |
| 4 kg                       |                                        |                                    |                            |
| 5 kg                       |                                        |                                    |                            |
| 6 kg                       |                                        |                                    |                            |
| 7 kg                       |                                        |                                    |                            |
| 8 kg                       |                                        |                                    |                            |
| 9 kg                       |                                        |                                    |                            |
| 10 kg                      |                                        |                                    |                            |
| 11 kg                      |                                        |                                    |                            |
| 12 kg                      |                                        |                                    |                            |
| 13 kg                      |                                        |                                    |                            |
| 14 kg                      |                                        |                                    |                            |
| 15 kg                      |                                        |                                    |                            |

| 16 kg   |
|---------|
| 17 kg   |
| 18 kg   |
| 19 kg   |
| 20 kg   |
| 21 kg   |
| 22 kg   |
| 23 kg   |
| 24 kg   |
| 25 kg   |
| 26 kg   |
| 27 kg   |
| 28 kg   |
| 29 kg   |
| 30 kg   |
| Add/kg  |

## ANNEXURE F

(Regulation 6(5))

## Data requirements for quarterly compliance report by telecommunications licensees:

| Mobile KPIs     | KPI Implied Price Overall                                       |
|-----------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|
|                 | KPI Implied Price Post-paid                                     |
|                 | KPI Implied Price Prepaid                                       |
|                 | KPI Overall DataARPU (Average Revenue per Unit) Monthly Average |
|                 | KPI Overall MOU(Minutes of Use) Monthly Average                 |
|                 | KPI Overall VoiceARPU Monthly Average                           |
|                 | KPI Post-paid DataARPU Monthly Average                          |
|                 | KPI Post-paid MOUMonthlyAverage                                 |
|                 | KPI Post-paid VoiceARPU Monthly Average                         |
|                 | KPI Prepaid DataARPU Monthly Average                            |
|                 | KPI Prepaid MOUMonthlyAverage                                   |
|                 | KPI Prepaid VoiceARPU Monthly Average                           |
| Interconnection | Revenue Interconnection All                                     |
|                 | Revenue Interconnection Domestic                                |
|                 | Revenue Interconnection International                           |
|                 | Expenses Interconnection Domestic                               |
|                 | Expenses Interconnection International                          |
|                 | Expenses Interconnection All                                    |

## ANNEXURE G

(Regulation 6(6))

## Data requirements for statistics on its information and communication technologies by all licensees:

| RAN SITES   |                                                 |
|-------------|-------------------------------------------------|
| Ho me       | Site Name                                       |
|             | Site Owner                                      |
|             | Address                                         |
|             | Tower Height (m)                                |
|             | Electricity                                     |
|             | Number of 2G Cells                              |
|             | Number of 3G Cells                              |
|             | Number of 4G Cells                              |
|             | Colocation space available                      |
| RAN Sites   |                                                 |
| Site Info   | Operator ID (identification)                    |
|             | Site ID                                         |
|             | Name                                            |
|             | Site Owner                                      |
|             | MCC (Mobile Country Code)                       |
|             | MNC(Mobile Network Code)                        |
|             | Site Manager                                    |
|             | Region                                          |
|             | Address                                         |
|             | Site Altitude                                   |
|             | Site Latitude                                   |
|             | Site Longitude                                  |
|             | Tower Make                                      |
|             | Tower Model                                     |
|             | Tower Type                                      |
|             | Tower Height (m)                                |
|             | Building Height (m)                             |
|             | OPEX per month (N$) (excluding collation costs) |
|             | Backhaul Data Connectivity                      |
|             | Backhaul Bandwidth                              |
|             | Backhaul Cost per month (N$)                    |
|             | Electricity                                     |
|             | Electricity Cost per Month (N$)                 |
|             | Colocation site                                 |
|             | Space available                                 |
|             | Co-locator Names                                |
|             | Colocation rent per month (N$)                  |
| GSMCells    | Cell name                                       |
|             | NE (Network) name                               |
|             | Tower Height (m)                                |
|             | Type                                            |
|             | Antenna Type                                    |
|             | Azimuth                                         |

|                      | BCC                                                    |
|----------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
|                      | BCCH (Broadcast Control Channel)                       |
|                      | BSIC (Base Station Identity Code)                      |
|                      | CL                                                     |
|                      | LAC (Location Area Code)                               |
|                      | Tilt Electrical                                        |
|                      | Tilt Mechanical                                        |
|                      | NCC (Network Colour Code)                              |
|                      | TCH (Traffic Channel)                                  |
| UMTS Cells           | NE Name                                                |
|                      | RNC ID (Radio Network Controller)                      |
|                      | NodeB ID                                               |
|                      | Cell ID                                                |
|                      | NodeB Name                                             |
|                      | Cell Name                                              |
|                      | LAC (Location Area Code)                               |
|                      | RAC (Routing Area Code)                                |
|                      | Upload Frequency                                       |
|                      | Download Frequency                                     |
|                      | PSC (Packet Switch Capability)                         |
|                      | Site Configuration                                     |
|                      | Antenna Type                                           |
|                      | Azimuth                                                |
|                      | Tilt Electrical                                        |
|                      | Tilt Mechanical                                        |
|                      | Antenna Height (m)                                     |
| LTE Cells            | Cell Name                                              |
|                      | Antenna Type                                           |
|                      | Azimuth                                                |
|                      | EARFCN (E-UTRAAbsolute Radio Frequency Channel Number) |
|                      | eNodeB ID                                              |
|                      | eNodeB Name                                            |
|                      | Local Cell ID                                          |
|                      | Tilt Electrical                                        |
|                      | Tilt Mechanical                                        |
|                      | PHYCell ID                                             |
|                      | Root Sequence Idx                                      |
|                      | TAC                                                    |
| Point-to-Point Links | Bandwidth MHz                                          |
|                      | Data Rate Mbits                                        |
|                      | Site ID                                                |
|                      | Frequency MHz                                          |
|                      | Model                                                  |
|                      | Antenna Model                                          |
|                      | Manufacturer                                           |
|                      | Modulation Type                                        |
|                      | Polarization                                           |
|                      | Antenna Height                                         |
|                      | (m)                                                    |

| Point-to-Multi-Point Links   | Bandwidth MHz                 |
|------------------------------|-------------------------------|
|                              | Data Rate Mbits               |
|                              | Site ID                       |
|                              | Frequency MHz                 |
|                              | Model                         |
|                              | Antenna Model                 |
|                              | Manufacturer                  |
|                              | Modulation Type               |
|                              | Polarization                  |
|                              | Antenna Height (m)            |
| Satellite                    | Satellite Name                |
|                              | Satellite Type                |
|                              | Frequency Type                |
|                              | Type Service                  |
|                              | Modem                         |
|                              | Polarization                  |
|                              | Power Output (Watt)           |
|                              | PowerDBM                      |
|                              | Uplink Speed Mbps             |
|                              | Uplink Center Frequency MHz   |
|                              | Downlink Center Frequency MHz |
| Fiber Links                  | Link Name                     |
|                              | Start Point Physical Address  |
|                              | End Point Physical Address    |
|                              | Data Rate in Mbit/s           |
|                              | Protection                    |
| EA_ID                        |                               |
| Site Info                    | FK Operator ID                |
|                              | PK MNOSite ID                 |
|                              | Site Name                     |
|                              | Site Type                     |
|                              | Landlord                      |
|                              | Altitude                      |
|                              | Longitude                     |
|                              | Latitude                      |
| Technology                   | 2G                            |
|                              | 3G                            |
|                              | 4G                            |
|                              | CDMA                          |
|                              | WIFI                          |
|                              | WIMAX                         |
| Transmission Backhauling     | Fibre                         |
|                              | Microwave                     |
|                              | Other                         |
|                              | Bandwidth Mbps                |

| 2G Cells            |                        |
|---------------------|------------------------|
| Links Cells to site | Site ID                |
|                     | Cell ID                |
| Antenna info        | Antenna Vendor         |
|                     | Antenna Model          |
|                     | Antenna height meters  |
|                     | Power Max Watt         |
| Antenna Parameters  | Power Actual Watt      |
|                     | Azimuth                |
|                     | Tilt Electrical        |
|                     | Tilt Mechanical        |
|                     | Frequency Download Mhz |
|                     | Band Number            |
|                     | ARFCN                  |
|                     | Bandwidth              |
| 3G Cells            |                        |
| Links Cells to site | Site ID                |
|                     | Cell ID                |
| Antenna info        | Antenna Vendor         |
|                     | Antenna Model          |
|                     | Antenna height meters  |
|                     | Power Max Watt         |
| Antenna Parameters  | Power Actual Watt      |
|                     | Azimuth                |
|                     | Tilt Electrical        |
|                     | Tilt Mechanical        |
|                     | Frequency Download Mhz |
|                     | Band Number            |
|                     | ARFCN                  |
|                     | Bandwidth              |
| 4G Cells            |                        |
| Links Cells to site | Site ID                |
|                     | Cell ID                |
| Antenna info        | Antenna Vendor         |
|                     | Antenna Model          |
|                     | Antenna height meters  |
|                     | Power Max Watt         |
| Antenna Parameters  | Power Actual Watt      |
|                     | Azimuth                |
|                     | Tilt Electrical        |
|                     | Tilt Mechanical        |
|                     | Frequency Download Mhz |
|                     | Band Number            |
|                     | ARFCN                  |
|                     | Bandwidth              |

## ITU indicators:

| Subscribers        |                                                         |
|--------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|
| Mobile             | Subscribers Mobile Post-paid active SIM Cards           |
|                    | Subscribers Mobile Prepaid active SIM Cards             |
|                    | Subscribers mobile broadband via dongle                 |
|                    | Subscribers mobile broadband via mobile                 |
|                    | Subscribers Mobile M2M(Machine-to-machine)              |
|                    | Subscribers Smartphones                                 |
|                    | No ported                                               |
| Landline           | Subscribers Fixed line business                         |
|                    | Subscribers Fixed line residential                      |
|                    | Subscribers IDSN Dialup                                 |
|                    | Subscribers Modem Dialup                                |
|                    | Subscribers xDSL 10Mbps and above                       |
|                    | Subscribers xDSL 2 to 10Mbps                            |
|                    | Subscribers xDSL below 2Mbps                            |
| Other              | Subscribers Fibre to the home                           |
|                    | Subscribers Leased lines                                |
|                    | Subscribers MetroNet ethernet                           |
|                    | Subscribers Other wireless                              |
|                    | Subscribers Satellite broadband VSAT                    |
|                    | Subscribers VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol)         |
| Investment         | Investment Network expansion upgrade                    |
|                    | Investment Software                                     |
| Infrastructure     | International downlink bandwidth Gbps                   |
|                    | International uplink bandwidth Gbps                     |
|                    | Infrastructure No(number) Microwave Links               |
|                    | Infrastructure Fibre Route km(kilometer)                |
|                    | Infrastructure No End-users Connected Fibre (RAN Sites) |
|                    | Infrastructure No Sites Fixed Wireless                  |
| Quality of Service | Billing and administration No complaints                |
|                    | Billing and administration Resolved 24H (hours)         |
|                    | Billing resolved within 14 days                         |
|                    | Calls to customer services answered 20 Seconds Percent  |
|                    | Customer Service No Complaints                          |
|                    | Customer Service resolved 24h                           |
|                    | Fault Repair Within 24h                                 |
|                    | Fault Repair Within 48h                                 |
|                    | Fixed line Faults per 100 lines                         |
|                    | Fixed line percent faults cleared next working day      |

## ANNEXURE H

(Regulation 10(2))

| Fixed line Waiting list                                               |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Number portability No Complaints                                      |
| Number portability resolved 24H                                       |
| Other No complaints                                                   |
| Other resolved 24h                                                    |
| Resolved Complaints Fault Repair 24H                                  |
| Supply time Fixed line initial connection within 5 days%              |
| Supply time Internet within 5 days Percent                            |
| Supply time Mobile within 5 days Percent                              |
| Total No complaints not resolved                                      |
| Total No complaints resolved within 14 days                           |
| Total No complaints resolved within 24 Hours                          |
| Total No complaints submitted to Cran                                 |
| Unsuccessful SMSAttempts                                              |
| Total number portability request                                      |
| Total Calls received customer support                                 |
| Supply time Mobile initial connection within 7 days %(Fixed Contract) |
| Supply time Internet within 7 days%                                   |
| Supply time Fixed within 7 days%                                      |
| SMSAttempts                                                           |
| Number test data transmissions                                        |
| Number successful test data transmissions                             |
| Number successful login attempts                                      |
| Number portability request deviating process                          |
| Number login attempts                                                 |
| Data Speed advertised Mbps (Megabits per second)                      |
| Data Speed achieved Mbps                                              |
| Busy Time                                                             |
| Total No of Bills issued to customers                                 |
| No of bills issued resulting in customer complaints                   |
| Hours defined as busy time for calls                                  |
| %Unsuccessful SMSAttempts                                             |
| %Unsuccessful Calls                                                   |
| %Successful SMSAttempts                                               |
| %successful test data transmissions                                   |
| Hours defined as busy time for calls                                  |
| No of login attempts                                                  |
| No of successful logins                                               |
| %success full login attempts                                          |
| Hours defined as busy time for calls                                  |
| %dropped Calls                                                        |
| %deviating requests number portability                                |
| %Calls answered 20 seconds                                            |
| Hours defined as busy time for calls                                  |
| No of originating SMS attempts                                        |
| No of successfully send and received                                  |
| SMS                                                                   |

| Traffic         |                                                             |
|-----------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|
| Mobile          | Traffic mobile incoming minutes from Fixed lines            |
|                 | Traffic mobile incoming minutes from other mobile operators |
|                 | Traffic mobile incoming minutes International               |
|                 | Traffic mobile Outgoing Minutes International               |
|                 | Traffic mobile Outgoing Minutes Off net Fixed line          |
|                 | Traffic mobile Outgoing Minutes Off net Mobile              |
|                 | Traffic mobile Outgoing Minutes On net                      |
|                 | Traffic mobile SMS Received                                 |
|                 | Traffic mobile SMS Sent                                     |
|                 | Traffic mobile Data GB used                                 |
| Landlines       | Traffic Fixed line incoming from mobile operators           |
|                 | Traffic Fixed line incoming International                   |
|                 | Traffic Fixed line Outgoing International                   |
|                 | Traffic Fixed line Outgoing On-net                          |
|                 | Traffic Fixed line Outgoing other mobile operators          |
| Employment      | Employment contract semi-permanent                          |
|                 | Employment disabled fulltime                                |
|                 | Employment expats fulltime                                  |
|                 | Employment female fulltime                                  |
|                 | Employment female management                                |
|                 | Employment fulltime                                         |
|                 | Employment part-time                                        |
| GDPContribution | GDPOperating Expenses total Reported                        |
|                 | GDPRevenue total Reported                                   |
|                 | GDPSalaries Expenses total Reported                         |
|                 | Depreciation Amortisation Reported                          |

---