

## GOVERNMENT GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA

N$6.00

WINDHOEK - 14 October 2021

No. 7659

## CONTENTS

| GENERALNOTICES   | GENERALNOTICES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |    |
|------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----|
| No. 554          | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Amendment of Regulations Regarding Rule- Making Procedures: Communications Act, 2009                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |  2 |
| No. 555          | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of Section 31 of the Communications Act, 2009                                                                                                                                                                                         |  2 |
| No. 556          | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of Section 53(7) of the Communications Act, 2009 read with the Regulations Regarding the Submissions of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs                                                                                                     |  3 |
| No. 557          | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of Regulation 19(1) of the Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences: Communications Act, 2009                                                                                                                    |  4 |
| No. 558          | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of Regulation 34(1) of the Regulations Prescribing Procedures Regarding Application for, and Amendment, Renewal, Transfer and Cancellation of Spectrum Licenses: Communications Act, 2009                                                                                                                          |  5 |
| No. 559          | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of Regulation 32(1) of the Regulations Prescribing the National Numbering Plan for Use in the Provision of Telecommunications Services in the Republic of Namibia, Numbering Licence Fees and Procedures for Number Licences: Communications Act, 2009   |  7 |
| No. 560          | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences and Spectrum Use Licences                                                                                          |  7 |
| No. 561          | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations Regarding Prescribing Procedures Regarding Application for, and Amendment, Renewal Transfer and Cancellation of Spectrum Licences                                                                                                       |  8 |
| No. 562          | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of Regulation 4(7) of the Regulations Prescribing Procedures Regarding Application for, and Amendment, Renewal, Transfer and Cancellation of Spectrum Licenses: Communications Act, 2009                                                                                                                           |  8 |

---

Page No. 554

## AMENDMENT OF REGULATIONS REGARDING RULE-MAKING PROCEDURES: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, under sections 129 of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009), after having followed the rule-making procedure in terms of the Regulations Regarding Rule-Making Procedures published under General Notice No. 334 of 17 December 2010, has amended the regulations as set out in the Schedule.

**H. M. GAOMAB II**  
CHAIRPERSON  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

## SCHEDULE

## Definitions

1. In these regulations 'the Regulations' means the Regulations Regarding RuleMaking Procedures published under General Notice No. 334 of 17 December 2010.

## Amendment of regulation 4 of Regulations

2. Regulation 4 of the Regulations is amended by the substitution for subregulation (2) of the following subregulation:
'(2) The Authority -
- (a) must initiate rule-making proceedings in respect of sections 23(1), 38(2)(c) and (6), 44(2), 48(6), 49(1) and (11)(d), 50(9), 53(20), 56(2), 57(1) and (10), 59(4), (81)(1), (84)(1), 89(1) and (6) and 93(2) of the Act that require the following of a rule-making procedure as contemplated in section 30(3) of the Act and as set out in these regulations;
- (b) may, when the Authority thinks appropriate, initiate rule-making proceedings in respect of the making of regulations for which the Act does not require a rule-making procedure as contemplated in section 30(7) of the Act.'.

## Repeal of regulation 12 of Regulations

3. The Regulations is amended by the repeal of regulation 12.

---

## COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

No. 555

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF SECTION 31 OF THE COMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia in terms of section 31 of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009), hereby gives notice that Multichoice Namibia

## General Notices

(Pty) Ltd have submitted an application for reconsideration of the Authority's decision which was published as General Notice No. 525, in Government Gazette No. 7644 on 27 September 2021.

The full application for reconsideration can be requested from the Authority, and:

- (a) The public may submit written comments within fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette .
- (b) The Applicant may submit a response to any written comments within fourteen (14) days from the lapsing of the time to submit written submissions.
- (c) Written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submissions is made, if different, and must be clear and concise.
- (d) Written submissions and reply comments must be made:
- (i) by hand to Communications House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (ii) by post to Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, Private Bag 13309, Windhoek;
- (iii) by electronic mail to legal@cran.na;
- (iv) by facsimile to +264 61 222790; or
- (v) by fax to e-mail to 0886550852.

**E. NGHIKEMBUA**  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

---

No. 556

NOTICE IN TERMS OF SECTION 53(7) OF THE COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009 READ WITH THE REGULATIONS REGARDING THE SUBMISSIONS OF INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENTS AND TARIFFS

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms section 53(1) and (7) of the Communications Act read with regulation 8 of the 'Regulations Regarding the Submission of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs', in Government Gazette No. 4714, General Notice No. 126, dated 18 May 2011, herewith gives notice that it has approved:

1. Home and Business Packages as submitted by Cathral Investments Ninety Six (Pty) Ltd t/a Bitstream, which came into force and effect on 1 October 2021 , notwithstanding the date of publication of the notice in the Gazette ;
2. Amended Spectra tariffs as submitted by Mobile Telecommunications Limited, which came into force and effect on 29 September 2021 , notwithstanding the date of publication of the notice in the Gazette ;

3. VSAT tariffs as submitted by Mobile Telecommunications Limited, which came into force and effect on 29 September 2021 , notwithstanding the date of publication of the notice in the Gazette ;
4. Flex Packages and Installation Fees as submitted by Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd t/a Paratus, which came into force and effect on 30 September 2021 , notwithstanding the date of publication of the notice in the Gazette ;
5. Installation Fees as submitted by Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd t/a Paratus, which came into force and effect on 30 September 2021 , notwithstanding the date of publication of the notice in the Gazette ;
6. Tariffs as submitted by Salt Essential IT (Pty) Ltd t/a Salt Essential , which came into force and effect on 30 September 2021 , notwithstanding the date of publication of the notice in the Gazette ;
7. International Voice tariffs as submitted by MTN Business Solutions (Pty) Ltd t/a MTN, which came into force and effect on 30 September 2021 , notwithstanding the date of publication of the notice in the Gazette ;

Please note that the full tariff submission and reasons for approval can be obtained from the Authority.

**H. M. GAOMAB II**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

No. 557

NOTICE IN TERMS OF REGULATION 19(1) OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING LICENSING PROCEDURES FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND BROADCASTING SERVICE LICENCES: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms Regulation 19(1) of the Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences, published in Government Gazette No. 4785, General Notice No. 272, dated 29 August 2011 (as amended), hereby gives notice of the following decisions:

## 1. Telecommunications Service Licences

- (a) The Authority resolved to award Metagalaxy Space Science and Technology CC a Class Comprehensive Telecommunications Service License (ECNS and ECS).
- (b) The Authority resolved to extend the period within which to provide telecommunications services for a period of twelve (12) months, in respect of the Class Comprehensive Telecommunications Service License (ECNS and ECS) awarded to Lizalex Communication Service (Pty) Ltd .

## 2. Broadcasting Service Licences

- (a) The Authority resolved to award a Commercial Broadcasting Service Licence to Infinity Investments CC .

- (b) The Authority resolved to renew the Commercial Broadcasting Service Licence awarded to Multichoice Namibia (Pty) Ltd .
- (c) The Authority resolved to renew the Commercial Broadcasting Service Licence awarded to Radiance Consulting and Training Services CC .
- (d) The Authority resolved to renew the Community Broadcasting Service Licence awarded to Shalo'm Messenger Ministries .
- (e) The Authority noted that the Commercial Broadcasting Service License and Spectrum License awarded to Hype Radio CC lapsed on 24 April 2020.

Decisions 1(a) and 1(b), and 2(a) to 2(d) above are effective from the date of this Notice.

The full reasons for the decisions can be requested from the Authority. In terms of section 31 of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009), the Authority may, on its own motion or on a petition filed by an aggrieved party to any proceedings, reconsider any order or decision that it has made, within 90 days from the date of this Notice.

**H. M. GAOMAB II**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

No. 558

NOTICE IN TERMS OF REGULATION 34(1) OF THE REGULATIONS PRESCRIBING PROCEDURES REGARDING APPLICATION FOR, AND AMENDMENT, RENEWAL, TRANSFER AND CANCELLATION OF SPECTRUM LICENSES: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of Regulation 34(1) of the Regulations Prescribing Procedures Regarding Application for, and Amendment, Renewal, Transfer and Cancellation of Spectrum Licenses, published as General Notice No. 104, in Government Gazette No. 6888, on 29 April 2019, hereby gives notice of the following decisions:

## 1. Spectrum Licences

- (a) The Authority resolved to award a Spectrum License to Gospel Missions Ministries as set-out in the table below:

| Licensee                   | Analogue FMRadio Broadcasting frequency and power output   | Coverage area   | Services to be provided   |
|----------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------|---------------------------|
| Gospel Missions Ministries | 103.8 MHz 100W                                             | Koës //Karas    | BROADCASTING              |

- (b) The Authority resolved to award a Spectrum License to De Beers Marine Namibia (Pty) Ltd as set-out in the table below:
- c) The Authority resolved to approve the amendment of the Spectrum License awarded to Mr. John Walenga as set-out in the table below:
- d) The Authority resolved to award a spectrum license NAMDEB Diamond Corporation (Pty) Ltd as set-out in the table below:

| Licensee                          | List of Radio Frequencies or Group of Radio Frequencies assigned                  | Geographical Area                     | Service to be provided   |
|-----------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|--------------------------|
| De Beers Marine Namibia (Pty) Ltd | CH 4: 6034.155/6286.195 MHz BW=29.65 MHz CH 5: 6063.805/6315.845 MHz BW=29.65 MHz | The exclusive mining area of Licensee | FIXED SERVICES           |

| Licensee         | Analogue FMRadio Broadcasting frequency and power output   | Coverage area                                        | Services to be provided   |
|------------------|------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------|
| Mr. John Walenga | 104.0 MHz 500W                                             | Windhoek, Okahandja &Rehoboth (Gross Hertzog Tower ) | BROADCASTING              |

| Licensee                             | List of Radio Frequencies or Group of Radio Frequencies assigned   | Geographical Area             | Service to be provided   |
|--------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------|--------------------------|
| NAMDEB Diamond Corporation (Pty) Ltd | CH 3: 10224.00/10574.00 MHz BW=28 MHz                              | NAMDEB Mining Area Oranjemund | RADIOLOCATION            |

The above decisions are effective from the date of this Notice.

The full reasons for the decisions can be requested from the Authority. In terms of section 31 of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009), the Authority may, on its own motion or on a petition filed by an aggrieved party to any proceedings, reconsider any order or decision that it has made, within 90 days from the date of this Notice.

**H. M. GAOMAB II**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

No. 559

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF REGULATION 32(1) OF THE REGULATIONS PRESCRIBING THE NATIONAL NUMBERING PLAN FOR USE IN THE PROVISION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES IN THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA, NUMBERING LICENCE FEES AND PROCEDURES FOR NUMBER LICENCES: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia in terms of Regulation 32(1) of the Regulations regarding the National Numbering Plan for Namibia for use in the provision of Telecommunications Services in the Republic of Namibia, Numbering Licence Fees and Procedures for Number Licences as published in Government Gazette No. 5983, General Notice No. 97 dated 01 April 2016, hereby gives notice of the following decision:

## 1. Application for Reconsideration - Designation of Short Codes as Emergency and Public Services Numbers

- (a) The Authority resolved to decline the application for reconsideration submitted by Telecom Namibia Limited and confirmed its decision which was published as General Notice No. 234, in Government Gazette No. 7558, on 22 June 2021.

The full reasons for the decision can be requested from the Authority. In terms of section 31 of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009), the Authority may, on its own motion or on a petition filed by an aggrieved party to any proceedings, reconsider any order or decision that it has made, within 90 days from the date of this Notice.

**H. M. GAOMAB II**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

No. 560

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING LICENSING PROCEDURES FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND BROADCASTING SERVICE LICENCES AND SPECTRUM USE LICENCES

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of regulation 19(1) of the Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences, published as General Notice No. 272, in Government Gazette No. 4785, on 29 August 2011 (as amended), hereby gives notice that it has made the following decision effective 29 September 20201 notwithstanding the date of publication of the notice in the Gazette ;

## Approval of Transfer of Licenses and Transfer of Control of Licenses

| Licensee                | Type of Service license                 | Transferee and percentage of stock   | Percentage of stock owned by Namibian citizens   |
|-------------------------|-----------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|
| West Coast FM (Pty) Ltd | Commercial Broadcasting Service Licence | West Coast Radio CC                  | Scharl Quinton Moller (100%)                     |

The reasons for the decision can be obtained from the Authority.

**H. M. GOAMAB II**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD

---

No. 561

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING PRESCRIBING PROCEDURES REGARDING APPLICATION FOR, AND AMENDMENT, RENEWALTRANSFER AND CANCELLATION OF SPECTRUM LICENCES

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of regulation 34(1) of the Regulations Regarding Prescribing Procedures Regarding Application for, and Amendment, Renewal Transfer and Cancellation of Spectrum Licences, as published in Government Gazette No. 7024, General Notice No. 429 dated 17 October 2019, hereby gives notice that it has made the following decision effective 29 September 2021 notwithstanding the date of publication of the Notice in the Gazette .

## Approval of Transfer of Licenses and Transfer of Control of Licenses

| Licensee             | Type of license   | Transferor           | Transferee    | Radio frequency or group of frequencies to be transferred   | Description of geographic coverage area (s)   | Service to be provided using frequencies transferred   |
|----------------------|-------------------|----------------------|---------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| West Coast (Pty) Ltd | Spectrum licenses | West Coast (Pty) Ltd | West Coast CC | 107.7 MHz                                                   | Swakopmund                                    | FM Broadcasting                                        |
| West Coast (Pty) Ltd | Spectrum licenses | West Coast (Pty) Ltd | West Coast CC | 106.9 MHz                                                   | Walvis Bay                                    | FM Broadcasting                                        |

The reasons for the decision can be obtained from the Authority.

**H. M. GOAMAB II**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

No. 562

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF REGULATION 4(7) OF THE REGULATIONS PRESCRIBING PROCEDURES REGARDING APPLICATION FOR, AND AMENDMENT, RENEWAL, TRANSFER AND CANCELLATION OF SPECTRUM LICENSES: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of regulation 4(7) of the Regulations Prescribing Procedures Regarding Application for, and Amendment, Renewal, Transfer and Cancellation of Spectrum Licenses, published as General Notice No. 104, in Government Gazette No. 6888, on 29 April 2019, herewith gives notice that the following application for radio frequency spectrum was submitted:

| Own                    |
|------------------------|
| Fixed                  |
| 15W                    |
| Rehoboth               |
| Rehoboth               |
| Hardap                 |
| 441.200 MHz            |
| 440 MHz - 470 MHz      |
| 100%                   |
| Namibia                |
| Infinity Investment CC |

The public may submit comments in writing to the Authority within a period of fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette .

Written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions or the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submission is made, and must be clear and concise.

Written submissions must be made either physically or electronically:

- (1) By hand at the head offices of the Authority: Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (2) By post to the head offices of the Authority: Private Bag 13309, Windhoek, Namibia;
- (3) By electronic mail to: legal@cran.na;
- (4) By facsimile to: +264 61 222790; or
- (5) By fax to e-mail to: 088642748.

**E. NGHIKEMBUA**  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---