

## GOVERNMENT GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA

N$6.00

WINDHOEK - 8 September 2021

No. 7627

## CONTENTS

Page

## GENERAL NOTICE

No. 496 Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice for the appointment of a special investigator in terms of section 124 of the Communications Act, 2009 

---

## General Notice

## COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

No. 496

## NOTICE FOR THE APPOINTMENT OF A SPECIAL INVESTIGATOR IN TERMS OF SECTION 124 OF THE COMMUNICATION ACT, 2009

Section 124 of the Act provides that the Authority may appoint a person who has expert knowledge in a particular field to be a special investigator to investigate any contravention of a provision of the Act or any aspect thereof. The Act mandates the special investigator to investigate any contravention of a provision of the Act.

Plum Consulting was appointed as a special investigator in terms of section 124 of the Communications Act and this appointment was published in Government Gazette No. 7547, dated 1 June 2021, General Notice No. 218 for the duration 31 March 2021 to 31 July 2021. As a section 124 special investigator, Plum Consulting began its obligations to investigate on behalf of the Authority in line with the TOR as approved by the Authority. The Principle Agreement provided that the work would be completed in 4 months.

However the project only started a month later than initially planned. In that regard, the Board of Directors had resolved to extend the appointment of Plum Consulting London LLP as a special investigator in terms of section 124 of the Communications Act to investigate the dispute between MTN/MTC for a further two months from 1 August 2021 lapsing 30 September 2021. Notice is hereby given of the extension of Plum Consultancy London LLP as a special investigator in terms of the Section 124 of the Communications Act.

| Name of Company             | Duration                           |
|-----------------------------|------------------------------------|
| Plum Consultancy London LLP | 1 August 2021 to 30 September 2021 |

Kindly take note that the appointment is effective as from the date of this publication.

**H. M. GAOMAB II**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

## \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_