

## GOVERNMENT GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA

N$8.00

WINDHOEK - 2 December 2022

No. 7968

## CONTENTS

Page

GENERAL NOTICE

No. 698 Communication Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations Regarding the Submissions of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs 

---

## General Notice

## COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

No. 698

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING THE SUBMISSIONS OF INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENTS AND TARIFFS

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of Section 53(10) of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009) read with regulation 8(1) of the 'Regulations Regarding the Submission of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs', in Government Gazette No. 4714, General Notice No. 126, dated 18 May 2011, herewith gives notice that Mobile Telecommunications Limited has filed tariffs with the Authority as set out in Schedule 1.

Any person may examine copies of the tariffs submitted at the head offices of the Authority during normal business hours and copies may be made on payment of a fee determined by the Authority. Copies are also available at www.cran.na where copies may be downloaded free of charge.

The public may submit in writing to the Authority written comments within fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette .

Mobile Telecommunications Limited may submit, in writing to the Authority, a response to any written comments within fourteen (14) days from the lapsing of the time to submit written submissions.

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submissions is made, if different and be clear and concise.

All written submissions and reply comments must be made either physically or electronically -

- (1) By hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (2) By post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek, 9000; and
- (3) By electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na.

**E. NGHIKEMBUA**  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY

## SCHEDULE 1

## SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED TARIFFS BY MOBILE TELECOMMUNICATIONS LIMITED: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

| Spectra 50 Home   |   12 Months |   24 Months |   36 Months |
|-------------------|-------------|-------------|-------------|
| Old Package       |    1,099.00 |    1,033.06 |      989.10 |
| New Package       |      945.00 |      888.30 |      850.50 |

Please note that the full tariff submission including the terms and conditions and the remedies available to the consumers can be obtained from the Authority.

---