

## GOVERNMENT GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA

N$6.00

WINDHOEK - 17 September 2021

No. 7638

## CONTENTS

Page

## GENERAL NOTICE

No. 523 Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in Terms of the Regulations Regarding the Submissions of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs 

---

## General Notice

## COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

No. 523

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING THE SUBMISSIONS OF INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENTS AND TARIFFS

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of Section 53(10) of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009) read with regulation 8(1) of the 'Regulations Regarding the Submission of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs', in Government Gazette No. 4714, General Notice No. 126, dated 18 May 2011, herewith gives notice that MTN Business Solutions ( Pty) Ltd has filed a tariff with the Authority as set out in Schedule 1.

Any person may examine copies of the tariffs submitted at the head offices of the Authority during normal business hours and copies may be made on payment of a fee determined by the Authority. Copies are also available at www.cran.na where copies may be downloaded free of charge.

The public may submit in writing to the Authority written comments within fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette .

MTN Business Solutions ( Pty) Ltd may submit, in writing to the Authority, a response to any written comments within fourteen (14) days from the lapsing of the time to submit written submissions.

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submissions is made, if different and be clear and concise.

All written submissions and reply comments must be made either physically or electronically -

- (1) by hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (2) by post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek, 9000;
- (3) by electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na;
- (4) by facsimile to the following facsimile number: +264 61 222790; and
- (5) by fax to e-mail to: 0886550852.

**E. NGHIKEMBUA**  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

## SCHEDULE 1

## SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED PRE-PAID RATES BY MTN BUSINESS SOLUTIONS (PTY) LTD: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

Table 1: MTN Prepaid Tariffs

|   Payload (GB) |   Ex VAT Including |      VAT |
|----------------|--------------------|----------|
|              1 |              17.39 |    20.00 |
|              5 |              78.26 |    90.00 |
|             10 |             143.48 |   165.00 |
|             15 |             195.65 |   225.00 |
|             20 |             234.78 |   270.00 |
|             30 |             334.78 |   385.00 |
|             60 |             565.22 |   650.00 |
|             90 |             739.13 |   850.00 |
|            250 |           1,434.78 | 1,650.00 |

---