

## GOVERNMENT GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA

N$8.00

WINDHOEK - 1 September 2025

No. 8723

## CONTENTS

Page

## GENERAL NOTICE

No. 640 Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Invitation to apply for subsidy under the Universal Service Fund to provide mobile broadbrand and voice network on a competitive bidding basis: Communications Act, 2009 

---

## General Notice

## COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

No. 640

INVITATION TO APPLY FOR SUBSIDY UNDER THE UNIVERSAL SERVICE FUND TO PROVIDE MOBILE BROADBRAND AND VOICE NETWORK ON A COMPETITIVE BIDDING BASIS: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia under section 57(7) of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009) read with regulation 11(5) of the Regulations prescribing the Provision of Universal Service by Telecommunications Service Licensees published as General Notice No. 178 under Government Gazette No. 6589 of 8 May 2018, hereby invites interested telecommunications service licensees to apply for subsidy to provide mobile broadband and voice networks at selected sites in Kavango East, Kavango West, Kunene, Ohangwena, Omaheke, Omusati, Oshikoto, Otjozondjupa, Zambezi, and ||Kharas on a competitive bidding basis.

Bidding will be conducted through a competitive bidding procedure in terms of section 41 as prescribed in the bidding document. Interested bidders may obtain the bidding document by downloading it from the CRAN website at www.cran.na from 1 September 2025.

Bids are due on 10 October 2025 at 11h00 and must be delivered to:

**CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER**  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

Bids will be opened in the presence of the bidder representatives and the general public who choose to attend at the address above on 10 October 2025 at 11h05.

**E. NGHIKEMBUA**  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

## \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_