
N$8.00

No. 454

NOTICE IN TERMS OF REGULATION 19(1) OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING LICENSING PROCEDURES FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND BROADCASTING SERVICE LICENCES: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of regulation 19(1) of the Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences, published in Government Gazette No. 4785, as General Notice No. 272, on 29 August 2011 (as amended), hereby gives notice of the following decisions:

## Telecommunications Service Licences

- a) The Authority resolved to award a Class Network Facilities Service Licence to FMT Global Connect Namibia Holdings (Pty) Ltd .
- b) The Authority resolved to award a Class Comprehensive Telecommunications Service Licence (ECS &amp; ECNS) to Oryx Fibre Infrastructure (Pty) Ltd .

## GOVERNMENT GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA

WINDHOEK - 8 July 2025

## CONTENTS

---

No. 8680

Page

| GENERALNOTICES   | GENERALNOTICES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
|------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| No. 454          | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of regulation 19(1) of the Regulations regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunication and Broadcasting Service Licences: Communications Act, 2009   |
| No. 455          | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice of application for reconsideration in terms of section 31: Communications Act, 2009                                                                                                      |

## General Notices

## COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

- c) The Authority resolved to award a Class Comprehensive Telecommunications Service Licence (ECS &amp; ECNS) to Packet Information Technologies CC .
- d) The Authority resolved to approve the withdrawal of Bank Windhoek Limited's Class Electronic Communications Network Service (ECNS) Telecommunications Service Licence and spectrum licence as per table below:

Table 1: Withdrawal of spectrum licence

| Frequencies Withdrawn                     | Reasons for Withdrawal                      | Geographic Coverage Areas   | Services       |
|-------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------|-----------------------------|----------------|
| 3280.000 MHz Uplink 4055.000 MHz Downlink | The V-SAT station is no longer in operation | Windhoek                    | FIXED SATELITE |

The full reasons for the above decisions can be requested from the Authority. In terms of section 31 of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No.8 of 2009), the Authority may, on its own motion or on a petition filed by an aggrieved party to any proceedings, reconsider any of these decisions within 90 days of this notice.

**T. K. MUFETI**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

No. 455

## NOTICE OF APPLICATION FOR RECONSIDERATION IN TERMS OF SECTION 31: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of section 31 of the Communications Act, 2009, herewith gives notice that the Authority has declined Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Limited 's petition against the award of the Electronic Communications Number Licence awarded to Mobile Telecommunications Limited as published in Government Gazette No. 8557, as General Notice No. 9, dated 6 January 2025.

The full reason for the decision can be requested from the Authority.

**T. K. MUFETI**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---