

## GOVERNMENT GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA

N$25.60

WINDHOEK - 21 June 2024

No. 8384

## CONTENTS

Page

| GENERALNOTICES   | GENERALNOTICES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |   GENERALNOTICES |
|------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------|
| No. 291          | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notification of Withdrawal of Regulations Prescribing the Universal Service Levy under section 56 and 129 of the Communications Act, 2009                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |                2 |
| No. 292          | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice of Intention to make Regulations Prescribing Universal Service Levy under section 56(2) and 129 of the Communications Act, 2009                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                2 |
| No. 293          | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of section 53(7) of the Communications Act, 2009 read with the Regulations regarding the Submissions of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs                                                                                                               |               26 |
| No. 294          | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of regulations 19(1) of the Regulations regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences: Communications Act, 2009                                                                                                                            |               26 |
| No.295           | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |               30 |
| No. 296          | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice of application for reconsideration in terms of section 31 of the Communications Act, 2009 and regulations 36(2) of the Regulations prescribing Procedures regarding Application for, and Amendment, Renewal or Transfer of Spectrum Licenses   |               31 |
| No. 297          | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice of application for reconsideration in terms of section 31 of the Communications Act, 2009 and regulations 36(2) of the Regulations prescribing Procedures regarding Application for, and Amendment, Renewal or Transfer of Spectrum Licenses   |               32 |

---

No. 291

## NOTIFICATION OF WITHDRAWAL OF REGULATIONS PRESCRIBING THE UNIVERSAL SERVICE LEVY UNDER SECTION 56 AND 129 OF THE COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia hereby gives notice in terms of regulation 11(b) of the Regulations regarding Rule-making Procedures as published under General Notice No. 334 dated 17 December 2010 that it has withdrawn the Notice of Intention to make regulations as published in the Government Gazette No. 7860, General Notice No. 342, dated 25 July 2022.

The reason for withdrawal of the said notice is that the Authority has revised the Universal Access and Gap Analysis report.

The Authority will publish a new notice of intention to make regulations in future.

**DR. T. MUFETI**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

## COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

No. 292

## NOTICE OF INTENTION TO MAKE REGULATIONS PRESCRIBING UNIVERSAL SERVICE LEVY UNDER SECTION 56(2) AND 129 OF THE COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of section 56(2) read with section 129(1)(e) of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009), and the Regulations regarding Rule-Making Procedures published under General Notice No. 334 dated 17 December 2010 -

- (a) publishes this notice of intention to make Regulations Prescribing Universal Service Levy under section 56(2) read with section 129(1)(e) of the Communications Act, 2009 as set out in Schedule 1; and
- (b) sets outs the concise statement of the reasons and purpose for the proposed regulations in Schedule 2.

The public may make oral submissions on the proposed regulations to the Authority, at a time, date and place notified by the Authority.

The public are hereby invited to make written representations, comments, communications and submissions (hereafter collectively called 'submissions') to the Authority within thirty (30) consecutive days from the date of publication of this notice in the Government Gazette, in the manner set out below for making of written submissions.

All written submissions must -

- (a) contain the name and full contact details (physical and postal address, email address and telephone or cell phone number) of the person making the written submissions and the name

## General Notices

and similar contact details of the person for whom the written submission is made if different; and

- (b) be clear and concise.

In the event where any person making a submission wishes to designate any information contained in such submission as confidential, such information must be clearly marked as 'confidential'.

Not with standing, if the Authority is of the opinion that information is not confidential it will inform the person thereof thereby -

- (a) allowing the person to withdraw the information from the rule-making proceedings;
- (b) agreeing with the person that it will not be treated anymore as confidential information; or
- (c) requesting a hearing on the issue of confidentiality to be conducted in accordance with section 28 of the Communications Act, 2009.

All written submissions must be send or submitted to be received by the Authority on or prior to the due date anticipated above in any of the following manners -

- (a) by hand to the head office of the Authority, namely Communications House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (b) by post to the head office of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek, 9000; and
- (c) by electronic mail to the following address legal@cran.na.

**DR T. MUFETI**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

## SCHEDULE 1

## UNIVERSAL SERVICE LEVY REGULATIONS: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

In terms of section 56(2) read with section 129(1)(e) of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009), Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia makes the Regulations as set out in this Schedule.

## Definitions

1. In these Regulations, any word or expression to which a meaning is assigned in the Act, has the same meaning and unless the context indicates otherwise -

'licensee' means the holder of a telecommunications licence or deemed to hold such licence as contemplated in terms of section 45 of the Act;

'universal service levy' means the levy contemplated in section 56 of the Act as imposed under these Regulations;

'the Act' means the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009);

'turnover' means the revenue generated by a licensee during its financial year, from the provision services or business that is generated from the scope of work which is regulated under this Act for purposes of these regulations and excluding tax; and

## Submission of documents to the Authority

2. Whenever documents are required to be delivered to the Authority, such documents must be delivered physically or electronically

̶

- (a) by hand-delivering them to any employee of the Authority at its principal place of business, being Communication House, No. 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (b) by post mailed to Private Bag 13309, Windhoek;
- (c) by electronic mail sent to economics@cran.na; or
- (d) in any other manner or to any other address specified in writing by the Authority from time to time.

## Imposition of Universal service levy

3. The universal service levy is payable by every licensee.

## Rate on which levy is payable

4. The rate of the levy is amounted to an amount not exceeding 5 percent of the annual turnover of the licensee concerned.

## Payment of Universal service levy

5. (1) If the levy referred to in regulation (3) payable by the licensee is less than N$ 500, such licensee must pay the amount of N$ 500.
- (2) The universal service levy set out in Annexure A is indicated in Namibian dollars.
- (3) The universal service levy is paid based on a licensee's turnover as reflected in -
- (a) the audited annual financial statements of a licensee where a licensee is required by law to have financial statements audited or where a licensee annually have its financial statements audited voluntary; or
- (b) the annual financial statements signed and sworn by the licensee's accounting officer in the event where a licensee is not required by law to audit financial statements and does not voluntary have such financial statements audited,

̶

subject thereto that in the event where a licensee's turnover is not accounted for separately and such licensee provides other products or services or conducts other business not regulated by or under the Act, the licensee must attach to the audited annual financial statements or annual financial statements a separate statement which must

- (i) indicate the licensee's turnover;
- (ii) indicate the methodology used to extract and determine such turnover;
- (iii) contain such other information as the Authority may determine; and
- (iv) be signed and sworn to by the licensee's auditor or accounting officer, to be a true and correct reflection of the licensee's turnover to the best of the knowledge of such auditor or accountant.

- (4) On receipt of a licensee's audited annual financial statements or signed and sworn annual financial statements referred to in regulation 6, the Authority must issue the licensee with an invoice stating the amount of the universal service levy payable by such licensee.

- (5) A licensee must, subject to subregulation (6) pay the universal service levy within 30 days after receipt of the invoice.

- (6) A licensee wishing to pay the universal service levy in instalments must submit a written application to the Authority at least three months prior to the due date of payment of the regulatory levy.

- (7) The Authority may, upon written application and on good cause shown by a licensee, authorise a licensee to pay the universal service levy in equal monthly instalments of not more than six months.

- (8) If a licensee is required to pay the levy and fails to pay such levy, the Authority may make a reasonable estimate of amount of levy payable based on the information provided in regulation (5) and impose a penalty as referred to in regulation 8.

## Furnishing of information by licensees

6. (1) A licensee who is required to pay the levy must, subject to subsection (2), not later than six months after such licensee's financial year end, submit to the Authority -

- (a) its audited annual financial statements; or

- (b) signed and sworn annual financial statements.

- (2) If the licensee is unable to submit the annual financial statements referred to in subsection (1), the licensee may, at least three months before the due date for such submission, apply to the Authority in writing for an extension and the Authority may grant such extension on good cause shown.

## Manner of Payment of levy

7. Unless the Authority determines otherwise, a licensee who is required to pay the levy in terms of regulation (3) must pay the levy into the Universal Service Fund by -

- (a) electronic transfer; or

- (b) direct deposit.

## Penalties

8. The Penalty Regulations, published in Government Gazette No. 7197 of 29 April 2020, General Notice No. 159 of 2020, apply to any contravention of or failure to comply with these Regulations.

## Amendment of regulations

- 9 . The regulations set out in Annexure B are amended as set out in the column 3 thereof.

## Transitional provision and commencement

10. (1) In the event where these Regulations commence subsequent to the start of a licensee's financial year, the universal service levy payable by such licensee is only payable on

turnover derived by a licensee as from the commencement of these Regulations.

- (2) These Regulations will become effective on date of publication in the Gazette .

## ANNEXURE A

(Regulation 5)

| Column 1                                                     | Column 2                         |
|--------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------|
| Licence Types                                                | Universal Services Fund Levy     |
| Telecommunications - Individual Comprehensive (ECNS and ECS) | Levy = (MAX(500(MIN(1%*Turnover) |
| Telecommunications - Class ECNS                              | Levy = (MAX(500(MIN(1%*Turnover) |
| Telecommunications - Class ECS                               | Levy = (MAX(500(MIN(1%*Turnover) |
| Telecommunications - Class Comprehensive (ECNS and ECS)      | Levy = (MAX(500(MIN(1%*Turnover) |
| Telecommunications - Network Facilities                      | Levy = (MAX(500(MIN(1%*Turnover) |
| Telecommunications - Non-profit (ECNS and ECS)               | Levy = N$ 500.00                 |

## ANNEXURE B

(Regulation 9)

| Column 1 Government Gazette and Government Notice                        | Column 2 Title of Regulations                                                                      | Column 3 Extent of Amendment/Repeal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Government Gazette No. 6589 of 8 May 2018 General Notice No. 178 of 2018 | Regulations Prescribing the Provision of Universal Service by Telecommunications Service Licensees | The amendment of regulation 8 by the insertion of the following subregulations after regulation 8(3): '(3A) The Universal Service Fund may additionally receive money from - (a) any donations or grants made or any other money accruing for the benefit of the Universal Service Fund from any other source; (b) any loan made to the Universal Service Fund subject thereto that interest on such loan may not exceed the prime interest rate of the banking institution where the Fund is opened.'. |

## SCHEDULE 2

## CONCISE STATEMENT OF PURPOSE

Section 56 of the Communications Act, 2009 establishes the Universal Service Fund and authorises the Authority to, by regulation and subject to the rule-making procedure, impose a universal service levy payable to the Universal Service Fund.

Sections 23(1), 23(2), 23(6) and 23(9) of the Communications Act (as amended in 2020) apply with the necessary changes to the Authority when imposing the universal service levy. Section 56(3A) of the Communications Act (as amended) states that the universal service levy may not exceed more than 5% of the annual turnover of a licensee/service provider. Readers are advised to also take note of the Regulations Prescribing the Provision of Universal Service by Telecommunications Service Licensees as published in the Government Gazette No. 6589 of 8 May 2018, General Notice No. 178 of 2018 (obtainable from CRAN's website www.cran.na).

Based on the above provisions of the Communications Act (as amended) factors which the Authority must consider when determining the size of the universal service levy are:

- the minimum set of services prescribed under section 57(1) of the Communications Act;
- the subsidies to be paid to licensees under section 57 of the Communications Act;
- any under- or over-recoveries by the Universal Service Fund (not applicable to the first imposition of the universal service levy);
- any other matter which the Authority deems relevant;
- the impact of the universal service levy on the sustainability of business and ensure that it does not have an unreasonable negative impact on such sustainability;
- ensure predictability, fairness, equitability, transparency and accountability in the determination and imposition of the universal service levy;
- the alignment of the universal service levy with regional and international best practices;
- to avoid, as far as possible, income from the universal service levy in excess of what is required;
- the necessity to manage any risks in the communications industry associated with the imposition of the universal access levy;
- any other fees, levies or charges which the providers of communication services are required to pay under the Communications Act.

The concise purpose of this regulation is therefore, to impose a universal service levy in line with the relevant provisions of the Communications Act (as amended). To amplify the reasons for the regulations and how the Authority arrived at the universal service levy percentage and how the levy will be implemented, a universal access gap analysis was conducted. The gap analysis is attached to this schedule for ease of reference and readers are encouraged to review the gap analysis in conjunction with this Notice of Intention to Make Regulations.

## UNIVERSAL ACCESS AND GAP ANALYSIS REPORT 2023

## Table of Contents

1. Introduction
2. Broadband Coverage
3. Selection locations for New RAN sites
4. Budget Projections
5. Conclusion
6. References
5. Appendix URLs for selected 79 RAN site locations
6. Appendix: Extra Ran Sites to reach 1% USF fee 10
7. Appendix: Lifting Kunene and Omaheke above 80%

## Table of Tables

- Table 1: Parameters for the CRAN radio propagation model
- Table 2: 4G Population coverage and Fibre routes by region for Feb 2024
- Table 3: Selected cells for new RAN sites with at least 700 people without 4G coverage (source: CRAN Portal)
- Table 4: Subsidies for cells with at least 700 uncovered people (source: CRAN Portal)
- Table 5: Impact of the 79 proposed RAN sites (source: CRAN Portal)
- Table 6: ICT revenue trends

Table 7: URLs for 79 RAN sites

Table 8: 55 additional RAN sites to reach 1% USF levy

Table 9: 55 additional RAN sites to reach 1% USF levy - URLs

Table 10: Extra RAN sites for Omaheke

Table 11: Extra RAN sites for Omaheke - URL

Table 12: Extra RAN sites for Kunene

Table 13: Extra RAN sites for Kunene - URLs

Table 14: Population coverage impact of extra RAN sites for Kunene and Omaheke

## Abbreviations

| 4G   | fourth-generation wireless                                                                                                                                 |
|------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| ACT  | Act No 8 of 2009                                                                                                                                           |
| BC   | Beauty Contest                                                                                                                                             |
| dBm  | dBm or dBmW(decibel-milliwatts) is a unit of level used to indicate that a power level is expressed in decibels (dB) with reference to one milliwatt (mW). |
| MSP  | Managed Spectrum Park                                                                                                                                      |
| MTC  | Mobile Telecommunications Company                                                                                                                          |
| RAN  | Radio Access Network                                                                                                                                       |
| TN   | Telecom Namibia                                                                                                                                            |
| UAS  | Universal Access and Service                                                                                                                               |
| USF  | Universal Service Fund                                                                                                                                     |
| USO  | Universal Service Obligation                                                                                                                               |

## 1. Introduction

Telecommunications play a crucial role in economic development, with infrastructure deployment key to innovation and growth. Namibia recognises the importance of Information Communication Technologies (ICTs) for socio-economic advancement. To achieve significant growth, the country focuses on universal access to ICT infrastructure and services for all citizens, aiming to provide quality and affordable services. This goal is detailed in the National Broadband Policy of Namibia for 2018 to 2022. The goal of the National Broadband Policy is to provide reliable and affordable broadband access infrastructure for all, aiming to bring internet speeds of at least 2 Mbps to 80% of the population. It should be noted that the 3G network in Namibia does not qualify as broadband, due to its average speeds of around 1 Mbps.

The General policy guidelines on universal access and service in communications of 2013 makes provision for the availability, affordability and accessibility for all Namibians to the full range of information and communications technology infrastructure, services and content. The policy goals for access and service to information and communications technologies are envisaged as follows:

- (i) Schools, post-school institutions and libraries has the highest priority amongst all segments of society, because these institutions are the foundations for Namibia's future economy and society;
- (ii) SMEs and informal businesses;
- (iii) Hospitals, clinics and health services;
- (iv) The non-governmental sector;
- (v) Mines, farms, nature reserves and conservancies; and
- (vi) Households in cities, towns, villages, settlements.

This study will analyse the progress made on achieving universal access and discuss and propose new geographic locations for Radio Access Network sites (RAN sites), as part of the broadband policy objectives.

The following methodologies were used to arrive at the recommendations in this report:

- (I) Systematic Analysis: Identifying potential new locations for network expansion involves using a systematic approach. This approach included overlaying a hexagon grid with an 8km radius on a map that details educational facilities such as schools, health centers (clinics), and population, along with current 4G network coverage. The number of people covered or not covered by 4G is then calculated for each square kilometer in Namibia. The cost of a new RAN site can be matched with the unmet demand for each hexagon. For those sites that are not commercially viable, subsidies are calculated.
- (II) Anchor Tenant Strategy: Using schools as the primary anchor tenants, the tenders will require schools to be provided with an uncapped WiFi router for the lifetime of the project, i.e. sevenyears, for which the Universal Service Fund (USF) will pay. This safeguards that schools will be able to use the new 4G coverage and that mobile network operators have secured demand for their services.
- (III) Grid Profitability: Hexagons are selected based on expected subsidy requirements, choosing those first that need the least direct subsidy, i.e., after paying for schools for the uncapped routers. A second option is also included that prioritises regions that do not meet the 80% broadband coverage objective.

The CRAN GIS portal calculates the subsidy requirements based on the cost of supply, unmet demand and the number of institutions that should receive subsidised WiFi access.

## 2. Broadband Coverage

The analysis of broadband coverage gaps is based on updated RAN sites and antenna data from the telecommunications licensees (mobile network operators) based on international best practice parameters from the GSMA as illustrated in Table 1.

Table 1: Parameters for the CRAN radio propagation model

|              | Handset      |   4G Lying in free space |   3G Browsing holding in hand |   2G By the head (BHH) |   CRAN model Free Space |
|--------------|--------------|--------------------------|-------------------------------|------------------------|-------------------------|
| GSMA(in dBm) | GSMA(in dBm) |                      -94 |                           -99 |                    -97 |                     -94 |
|              | 800 Mhz      |                       12 |                            10 |                        |                      12 |
|              | 900MHz       |                       12 |                            10 |                     15 |                      12 |
|              | 1800MHz      |                        8 |                             8 |                     10 |                       6 |
|              | 2100MHz      |                        6 |                             6 |                      8 |                       6 |
|              | 2600MHz      |                        4 |                             4 |                      6 |                       4 |

Source: modified from GSMA, https://www.gsma.com/newsroom/wp-content/uploads/TS.24-v4.0.pdf

The 4G broadband coverage increased from 79% in 2021 to 88% in 2024, exceeding the 80% 4G population coverage as per the Broadband Policy objective. This expansion is attributed to upgrades of existing sites, the erection of new RAN sites and the fullfillment of coverage obligations as part of the conditions of the allocation of 700 and 800 MHz spectrum by CRAN in 2023. 1 School and Clinic 4G coverage also increased in the last two years, 117 schools and 34 clinics have been connected with 4G broadband since 2022 (Figure 2).

1 In 2023 CRAN auctioned spectrum for the 700MHz and 800MHz band with for rural roll-out requirements for specific regions.

Table 2: 4G Population coverage and Fibre routes

|                | 4G Population Coverage   | 4G Population Coverage   | 4G Population Coverage   |   People not covered in 2023 | Schools not covered by   | Clinics not           | Policy Objective of   | Increase   |
|----------------|--------------------------|--------------------------|--------------------------|------------------------------|--------------------------|-----------------------|-----------------------|------------|
| Region         | 2021                     | 2022                     | 2023                     |                              | 4G in 2023               | covered by 4G in 2023 | minimum of 80%        |            |
| !Karas         | 73%                      | 81%                      | 80%                      |                       21,464 | 7                        | 4                     | Above                 | 7.3%       |
| Erongo         | 92%                      | 94%                      | 95%                      |                       12,524 | 6                        | 5                     | Above                 | 3.1%       |
| Hardap         | 72%                      | 77%                      | 79%                      |                       22,569 | 11                       | 1                     | Below                 | 7.0%       |
| Kavango East   | 69%                      | 83%                      | 91%                      |                       19,404 | 54                       | 6                     | Above                 | 22.1%      |
| Kavango West   | 40%                      | 59%                      | 70%                      |                       37,537 | 79                       | 10                    | Below                 | 29.9%      |
| Khomas         | 96%                      | 97%                      | 98%                      |                       11,119 | 7                        | 0                     | Above                 | 1.7%       |
| Kunene         | 33%                      | 41%                      | 49%                      |                       61,074 | 56                       | 8                     | Below                 | 15.7%      |
| Ohangwena      | 90%                      | 93%                      | 94%                      |                       20,442 | 18                       | 2                     | Above                 | 3.7%       |
| Omaheke        | 48%                      | 57%                      | 64%                      |                       37,275 | 8                        | 0                     | Below                 | 16.4%      |
| Omusati        | 82%                      | 95%                      | 96%                      |                       11,901 | 13                       | 3                     | Above                 | 14.1%      |
| Oshana         | 96%                      | 98%                      | 99%                      |                        2,890 | 4                        | 0                     | Above                 | 2.8%       |
| Oshikoto       | 73%                      | 80%                      | 84%                      |                       42,415 | 41                       | 3                     | Above                 | 10.9%      |
| Otjozon- djupa | 72%                      | 75%                      | 78%                      |                       48,264 | 17                       | 6                     | Below                 | 6.0%       |
| Zambezi        | 60%                      | 78%                      | 92%                      |                       11,384 | 18                       | 2                     | Above                 | 31.6%      |
| Namibia        | 79%                      | 85%                      | 88%                      |                      360,261 | 339                      | 50                    | Above                 | 9.0%       |

Only five regions remain below the 80% broadband coverage target: Hardap, Otjozondupa, Kavango West, Omaheke, and Kunene. Currently, 360,000 Namibians (12% of the population,) do not have 4G (Broadband) coverage, along with 339 educational facilities and 50 health facilities. This is where the Universal Service Fund assists in filling these gaps.

## Figure 2: Schools and Clinics without 4G coverage in 2024 compared to 2022

Omaheke, and Kunene have a very low population density and it may not be commercially viable to cover 80% population with 4G broadband. This is where the Universal Service Fund is required to assist in filling these gaps. However, some gaps can be closed using community -based approaches and satellite services.

## 3. Selection locations for New RAN sites

The Universal Access and Services interventions approach is based on a grid analysis to identify underserved areas. RAN sites are indirectly subsidised by funding institutions such as schools and clinics and through direct subsidies, if necessary. The selection of geographic areas requiring a USF intervention is based on an 8km radius hexagon grid overlaid on Namibia. The grid size is determined by the radio propagation characteristics of 4G mobile broadband.

For each hexagon, the number of people not covered by the 4G signal is computed by overlaying the network coverage and population layers using GIS software. The unmet demand is calculated by multiplying the number of people not currently covered by the expected monthly average revenue per user (ARPU) of NAD 60 with the broadband adoption rate of 30%:

Unmet demand = people not covered * NAD 60 * 30%

Each Hexagon is tendered as a separate lot, comprising demand stimulation and new RAN sites. The USF will pay subsidies to the successful bidder of each lot, by providing uncapped WiFi routers for all schools currently outside of broadband coverage. Additionally, schools without access to the electricity grid will receive a solar kit from the MNO, funded by the USF. The successful MNO is responsible for providing routers, solar kits, and seven years of uncapped service to selected institutions. While a WiFi router with an uncapped 4G connection may not be sufficient for all learners, it can adequately serve teachers and support an ICT curriculum where learners can learn computer and Internet skills.

Hexagons of 1,500 uncovered people or more are deemed sustainable in the long run. This leaves 14 new RAN sites for Namibia that are commercially viable. This study selected 79 RAN sites with at least 700 uncovered people, knowing that many of these sites may not be profitable after the life time of the subsidy, which is 7 years. The towers are thus written off over 7 years instead of over 20 years.

Table 3: Selected cells for new RAN sites with at least 700 people without 4G coverage (source: CRAN Portal)

|   # |   Grid ID | Region       | Constituency      |   latitude |   longitude |   Without 4G People |   Schools |   Clinics |
|-----|-----------|--------------|-------------------|------------|-------------|---------------------|-----------|-----------|
|   1 |      2090 | Oshikoto     | Omuthiyagwiipundi |   -18.1892 |     16.5129 |               2,925 |         4 |         0 |
|   2 |      4276 | Kavango West | Musese            |   -17.8988 |     19.2264 |               2,441 |         1 |         1 |
|   3 |      2182 | Oshikoto     | Okankolo          |   -17.8752 |     16.6234 |               2,400 |         3 |         1 |
|   4 |      4686 | Kavango East | Rundu Rural       |   -18.0730 |     19.7961 |               2,315 |         2 |         1 |
|   5 |      4935 | Kavango East | Ndonga Linena     |   -18.0115 |     20.5843 |               1,940 |         2 |         1 |
|   6 |      4271 | Kavango West | Ncamagoro         |   -18.5232 |     19.2415 |               1,861 |         1 |         1 |
|   7 |      2088 | Oshikoto     | Omuthiyagwiipundi |   -18.4395 |     16.5150 |               1,798 |         2 |         0 |
|   8 |      4360 | Kavango West | Ncamagoro         |   -18.3334 |     19.3501 |               1,795 |         2 |         0 |
|   9 |       699 | Omusati      | Onesi             |   -17.6312 |     14.5852 |               1,740 |         0 |         0 |
|  10 |      2179 | Oshikoto     | Omuthiyagwiipundi |   -18.2510 |     16.6269 |               1,737 |         0 |         0 |
|  11 |      2000 | Oshikoto     | Onyaanya          |   -18.1277 |     16.3989 |               1,711 |         2 |         1 |
|  12 |      2092 | Oshikoto     | Okankolo          |   -17.9389 |     16.5107 |               1,707 |         2 |         0 |
|  13 |      2093 | Ohangwena    | Epembe            |   -17.8137 |     16.5097 |               1,607 |         1 |         0 |
|  14 |      4534 | Kavango West | Ncuncuni          |   -18.0785 |     19.5700 |               1,556 |         2 |         0 |
|  15 |      2002 | Ohangwena    | Epembe            |   -17.8770 |     16.3970 |               1,458 |         1 |         0 |
|  16 |       364 | Kunene       | Epupa             |   -17.5020 |     13.6813 |               1,413 |         1 |         0 |
|  17 |      3737 | Kavango West | Mpungu            |   -17.5547 |     18.5162 |               1,412 |         2 |         0 |
|  18 |      2266 | Oshikoto     | Eengondi          |   -18.3124 |     16.7410 |               1,364 |         1 |         0 |
|  19 |      2183 | Ohangwena    | Epembe            |   -17.7501 |     16.6223 |               1,343 |         1 |         0 |
|  20 |      5049 | Kavango East | Mukwe             |   -17.9528 |     21.1501 |               1,337 |         1 |         1 |
|  21 |       174 | Kunene       | Epupa             |   -17.8717 |     12.9992 |               1,300 |         1 |         1 |
|  22 |       396 | Kunene       | Epupa             |   -17.8158 |     13.7922 |               1,270 |           |           |
|  23 |      4361 | Kavango West | Ncamagoro         |   -18.2086 |     19.3470 |               1,247 |         2 |         0 |
|  24 |      2352 | Oshikoto     | Eengondi          |   -18.3741 |     16.8551 |               1,244 |         1 |         0 |
|  25 |       432 | Kunene       | Epupa             |   -17.7537 |     13.9058 |               1,212 |         1 |         0 |
|  26 |      3550 | Kavango West | Mpungu            |   -17.6664 |     18.3174 |               1,199 |         4 |         0 |
|  27 |      1911 | Oshikoto     | Onayena           |   -17.9405 |     16.2842 |               1,155 |         1 |         0 |
|  28 |      5156 | Zambezi      | Linyanti          |   -18.1091 |     23.9680 |               1,154 |         1 |         0 |
|  29 |      4608 | Otjozondjupa | Tsumkwe           |   -19.5109 |     19.7230 |               1,133 |         2 |         1 |
|  30 |      2444 | Oshikoto     | Okankolo          |   -17.8097 |     16.9624 |               1,129 |         1 |         0 |
|  31 |      2001 | Oshikoto     | Onyaanya          |   -18.0023 |     16.3979 |               1,126 |         2 |         0 |
|  32 |      4685 | Kavango West | Ncuncuni          |   -18.1978 |     19.7995 |               1,092 |         3 |         1 |
|  33 |      5047 | Kavango East | Mukwe             |   -18.1590 |     21.1549 |               1,073 |         3 |         0 |
|  34 |      4265 | Otjozondjupa | Tsumkwe           |   -19.2724 |     19.2604 |               1,057 |         1 |         0 |
|  35 |      2178 | Oshikoto     | Omuthiyagwiipundi |   -18.3761 |     16.6281 |               1,057 |         1 |         0 |
|  36 |      2005 |              |                   |   -17.5015 |     16.3941 |                     |         2 |           |
|     |           | Ohangwena    | Eenhana           |            |             |               1,050 |           |         0 |

| #     | Grid ID   | Region               | Constituency               | latitude          | longitude       | People   | Without 4G Schools   | Clinics   |
|-------|-----------|----------------------|----------------------------|-------------------|-----------------|----------|----------------------|-----------|
| 38    | 395       | Kunene               | Epupa                      | -17.9410          | 13.7914         | 1,031    | 2                    | 0         |
| 39    | 5104      | Zambezi              | Kongola                    | -17.8445          | 22.9448         | 1,027    | 2                    | 0         |
| 40    | 5205      | Zambezi              | Kabbe South                | -17.6284          | 24.9507         | 1,023    | 1                    | 0         |
| 41    | 3030      | Hardap               | Mariental Urban            | -24.4900          | 17.8811         | 1,014    |                      |           |
| 42    | 5045      | Kavango East         | Mukwe                      | -17.9919          | 21.0379         | 986      | 1                    | 0         |
| 43    | 2358      | Ohangwena            | Oshikunde                  | -17.6229          | 16.8473         | 954      | 1                    | 0         |
| 44    | 4264      | Otjozondjupa         | Tsumkwe                    | -19.3973          | 19.2637         | 941      | 1                    | 1         |
| 45    | 2004      | Ohangwena            | Eenhana                    | -17.6267          | 16.3950         | 934      | 1                    | 0         |
| 46    | 4730      | Kavango East         | Rundu Rural                | -18.0076          | 19.9073         | 931      | 1                    | 0         |
| 47    | 319       | Kunene               | Opuwo Rural                | -18.8159          | 13.5575         | 913      | 1                    | 0         |
| 48    | 5054      | Kavango East         | Mukwe                      | -18.2684          | 21.3849         | 904      | 2                    | 0         |
| 49    | 321       | Kunene               | Opuwo Rural                | -18.5654          | 13.5596         | 894      |                      |           |
| 50    | 1819      | Oshikoto             | Omuntele                   | -18.1292          | 16.1721         | 891      | 2                    | 0         |
| 51    | 578       | Omusati              | Ruacana                    | -18.6324          | 14.3553         | 872      | 1                    | 0         |
| 52    | 5000      | Kavango East         | Ndiyona                    | -18.2317          | 20.8184         | 860      | 5                    | 1         |
| 53    | 362       | Kunene               | Epupa                      | -17.7523          | 13.6795         | 843      | 2                    | 1         |
| 54    | 4523      | Otjozondjupa         | Tsumkwe                    | -19.4515          | 19.6073         | 831      | 1                    | 0         |
| 55    | 547       | Omusati              | Ruacana                    | -17.4479          | 14.2480         | 819      | 1                    | 0         |
| 56    | 3918      | Kavango West         | Tondoro                    | -18.0331          | 18.7770         | 814      | 2                    | 1         |
| 57    | 1466      | Oshana               | Ompundja                   | -18.0060          | 15.7179         | 807      | 1                    | 0         |
| 58    | 2531      | Oshikoto             | Nehale LyaMpingana         | -17.8709          | 17.0763         | 805      | 2                    | 0         |
| 59    | 3466      | !Karas               | Karasburg East             | -28.1614          | 18.5841         | 800      | 1                    | 1         |
| 60    | 4798      | Kavango East         | Mashare                    | -18.0018          | 20.1332         | 794      | 2                    | 0         |
| 61    | 4362      | Kavango West         | Kapako                     | -18.0838          | 19.3439         | 791      | 2                    | 0         |
| 62    | 3639      | Kavango West         | Mpungu                     | -18.1020          | 18.4387         | 787      | 2                    | 0         |
| 63    | 2807      | Oshikoto             | Nehale LyaMpingana         | -17.8046          | 17.4150         | 785      | 1                    | 0         |
| 64    | 3735      | Kavango West         | Mpungu                     | -17.7874          | 18.5457         | 784      | 1                    | 1         |
| 65    | 2445      | Ohangwena            | Oshikunde                  | -17.6846          | 16.9610         | 783      | 0                    | 0         |
| 66    | 2447      | Ohangwena            | Oshikunde                  | -17.4406          | 16.9584         | 775      | 2                    | 0         |
| 67 68 | 5191 4449 | Zambezi Kavango West | Katima Mulilo Rural Kapako | -17.9446 -18.0186 | 24.6225 19.4554 | 764 759  | 1 1                  | 0 0       |
| 69    | 2835      | !Karas               | Berseba                    | -25.7443          | 17.6716         | 759      | 1                    | 0         |
| 70 71 | 430 204   | Kunene Kunene        | Opuwo Urban Epupa          | -18.0043 -17.4347 | 13.9043 13.1169 | 753 747  | 1                    | 0         |
| 72    | 2619      | Oshikoto             | Nehale LyaMpingana         | -18.3077          | 17.1949         | 746      | 1                    | 0         |
| 73    | 385       | Kunene               | Sesfontein                 | -19.1930          | 13.7825         | 743      | 1                    | 0         |
| 74    | 4447      | Kavango West         | Ncamagoro                  | -18.2682          | 19.4618         | 727      | 1                    | 0         |
| 75    | 2718      | Ohangwena            | Okongo                     | -17.4084          | 17.2964         | 718      |                      |           |
| 76    | 2180      | Oshikoto             | Eengondi                   | -18.1259          | 16.6257         | 716      | 1                    | 0         |
| 77    | 2901      | Ohangwena            | Okongo                     | -17.4903          | 17.5238         | 711      | 0                    | 1         |
| 78    | 3644      | Kavango West         | Mpungu                     | -17.4795          | 18.4216         | 705      | 1                    | 1         |
| 79    |           |                      |                            |                   |                 | 701      | 1                    | 0         |
|       | 5145      | Zambezi              | Linyanti                   | -17.8727          | 23.7321         |          |                      |           |
| Total |           |                      |                            |                   |                 | 90,345   | 109                  | 18        |

The hexagons can be tendered simultaneously, with the subsidy paid annually. It is expected that sufficient coverage will be achieved in the first year, but demand stimulation will continue throughout the entire 7-year period. The required subsidy for the 7 years is annualised, and the winning MNO of the tender will receive seven payments at the beginning of each year.

Table 4: Subsidies for cells with at least 700 uncovered people (source: CRAN Portal)

|       |           |                        | USF subsidy              | USF subsidy          | USF subsidy         | USF subsidy            | USF subsidy               |
|-------|-----------|------------------------|--------------------------|----------------------|---------------------|------------------------|---------------------------|
| #     | Grid ID   | Unmet demand per month | Demand Stimulation month | Direct Subsidy month | Total Subsidy Month | Total Subsidy per year | Total Subsidy for 7 years |
| 1     | 2090      | 52,647                 | 3,996                    | 0                    | 3,996               | 47,952                 | 335,664                   |
| 2     | 4276      | 43,945                 | 1,998                    | 5,009                | 7,007               | 84,085                 | 588,594                   |
| 3     | 2182      | 43,196                 | 3,996                    | 3,760                | 7,756               | 93,077                 | 651,537                   |
| 4     | 4686      | 41,679                 | 2,997                    | 6,277                | 9,274               | 111,283                | 778,981                   |
| 5     | 4935      | 34,913                 | 2,997                    | 13,042               | 16,039              | 192,470                | 1,347,288                 |
| 6     | 4271      | 33,492                 | 1,998                    | 15,463               | 17,461              | 209,529                | 1,466,702                 |
| 7     | 2088      | 32,361                 | 1,998                    | 16,594               | 18,592              | 223,102                | 1,561,716                 |
| 8     | 4360      | 32,312                 | 1,998                    | 16,642               | 18,640              | 223,679                | 1,565,753                 |
| 9     | 699       | 31,315                 | 0                        | 19,637               | 19,637              | 235,644                | 1,649,510                 |
| 10    | 2179      | 31,261                 | 0                        | 19,691               | 19,691              | 236,292                | 1,654,046                 |
| 11    | 2000      | 30,789                 | 2,997                    | 17,166               | 20,163              | 241,959                | 1,693,710                 |
| 12    | 2092      | 30,725                 | 1,998                    | 18,229               | 20,227              | 242,724                | 1,699,069                 |
| 13    | 2093      | 28,917                 | 999                      | 21,036               | 22,035              | 264,423                | 1,850,961                 |
| 14    | 4534      | 28,001                 | 1,998                    | 20,953               | 22,951              | 275,416                | 1,927,911                 |
| 15    | 2002      | 26,236                 | 999                      | 23,717               | 24,716              | 296,595                | 2,076,168                 |
| 16    | 364       | 25,439                 | 999                      | 24,515               | 25,514              | 306,164                | 2,143,146                 |
| 17    | 3737      | 25,411                 | 1,998                    | 23,543               | 25,541              | 306,495                | 2,145,465                 |
| 18    | 2266      | 24,558                 | 999                      | 25,395               | 26,394              | 316,727                | 2,217,088                 |
| 19    | 2183      | 24,166                 | 999                      | 25,787               | 26,786              | 321,433                | 2,250,033                 |
| 20    | 5049      | 24,061                 | 1,998                    | 24,893               | 26,891              | 322,693                | 2,258,853                 |
| 21    | 174       | 23,400                 | 1,998                    | 25,554               | 27,552              | 330,625                | 2,314,372                 |
| 22    | 396       | 22,866                 | 0                        | 28,087               | 28,087              | 337,040                | 2,359,279                 |
| 23    | 4361      | 22,442                 | 1,998                    | 26,512               | 28,510              | 342,125                | 2,394,878                 |
| 24    | 2352      | 22,391                 | 999                      | 27,563               | 28,562              | 342,741                | 2,399,185                 |
| 25    | 432       | 21,821                 | 999                      | 28,133               | 29,132              | 349,582                | 2,447,076                 |
| 26    | 3550      | 21,576                 | 3,996                    | 25,380               | 29,376              | 352,513                | 2,467,594                 |
| 27    | 1911      | 20,796                 | 999                      | 29,157               | 30,156              | 361,876                | 2,533,135                 |
| 28    | 5156      | 20,764                 | 999                      | 29,189               | 30,188              | 362,262                | 2,535,834                 |
| 29    | 4608      | 20,386                 | 2,997                    | 27,570               | 30,567              | 366,800                | 2,567,599                 |
| 30    | 2444      | 20,326                 | 999                      | 29,628               | 30,627              | 367,519                | 2,572,636                 |
| 31    | 2001      | 20,266                 | 1,998                    | 28,689               | 30,687              | 368,241                | 2,577,685                 |
| 32    | 4685      | 19,665                 | 3,996                    | 27,291               | 31,287              | 375,449                | 2,628,145                 |
| 33    | 5047      | 19,306                 | 2,997                    | 28,650               | 31,647              | 379,760                | 2,658,323                 |
| 34    | 4265      | 19,021                 | 999                      | 30,932               | 31,931              | 383,177                | 2,682,239                 |
| 35    | 2178      | 19,019                 | 999                      | 30,934               | 31,933              | 383,198                | 2,682,383                 |
| 36    | 2005      | 18,899                 | 1,998                    | 30,055               | 32,053              | 384,639                | 2,692,471                 |
| 37    | 2488      | 18,801                 | 999                      | 31,152               | 32,151              | 385,814                | 2,700,700                 |
| 38    | 395       | 18,555                 | 1,998                    | 30,400               | 32,398              | 388,774                | 2,721,415                 |
| 39    | 5104      | 18,494                 | 1,998                    | 30,461               | 32,459              | 389,504                | 2,726,531                 |
| 40    | 5205      | 18,419                 | 999                      | 31,534               | 32,533              | 390,395                | 2,732,765                 |
| 41    | 3030      | 18,256                 | 0                        | 32,696               | 32,696              | 392,353                | 2,746,470                 |
| 42    | 5045      | 17,750                 |                          | 32,203               | 33,202              | 398,424                |                           |
|       |           |                        | 999                      |                      |                     |                        | 2,788,967                 |
| 43 44 | 2358 4264 | 17,176 16,944          | 999 1,998                | 32,777 32,010        | 33,776 34,008       | 405,316 408,097        | 2,837,209 2,856,676       |
| 45    | 2004      | 16,808                 | 999                      | 33,145               | 34,144              | 409,728                | 2,868,094                 |

|       |         |                        | USF subsidy              | USF subsidy          | USF subsidy         | USF subsidy            | USF subsidy               |
|-------|---------|------------------------|--------------------------|----------------------|---------------------|------------------------|---------------------------|
| #     | Grid ID | Unmet demand per month | Demand Stimulation month | Direct Subsidy month | Total Subsidy Month | Total Subsidy per year | Total Subsidy for 7 years |
| 46    | 4730    | 16,750                 | 999                      | 33,203               | 34,202              | 410,427                | 2,872,992                 |
| 47    | 319     | 16,442                 | 999                      | 33,512               | 34,511              | 414,127                | 2,898,890                 |
| 48    | 5054    | 16,265                 | 1,998                    | 32,689               | 34,687              | 416,248                | 2,913,737                 |
| 49    | 321     | 16,083                 | 0                        | 34,869               | 34,869              | 418,427                | 2,928,991                 |
| 50    | 1819    | 16,034                 | 1,998                    | 32,920               | 34,918              | 419,015                | 2,933,106                 |
| 51    | 578     | 15,687                 | 999                      | 34,266               | 35,265              | 423,181                | 2,962,265                 |
| 52    | 5000    | 15,481                 | 5,994                    | 29,477               | 35,471              | 425,656                | 2,979,591                 |
| 53    | 362     | 15,173                 | 2,997                    | 32,782               | 35,779              | 429,350                | 3,005,452                 |
| 54    | 4523    | 14,959                 | 999                      | 34,995               | 35,994              | 431,924                | 3,023,470                 |
| 55    | 547     | 14,741                 | 999                      | 35,213               | 36,212              | 434,542                | 3,041,795                 |
| 56    | 3918    | 14,657                 | 2,997                    | 33,298               | 36,295              | 435,540                | 3,048,780                 |
| 57    | 1466    | 14,534                 | 999                      | 35,419               | 36,418              | 437,018                | 3,059,125                 |
| 58    | 2531    | 14,492                 | 1,998                    | 34,462               | 36,460              | 437,523                | 3,062,664                 |
| 59    | 3466    | 14,396                 | 1,998                    | 34,558               | 36,556              | 438,676                | 3,070,730                 |
| 60    | 4798    | 14,289                 | 1,998                    | 34,666               | 36,664              | 439,963                | 3,079,744                 |
| 61    | 4362    | 14,233                 | 1,998                    | 34,721               | 36,719              | 440,628                | 3,084,397                 |
| 62    | 3639    | 14,172                 | 1,998                    | 34,783               | 36,781              | 441,367                | 3,089,566                 |
| 63    | 2807    | 14,130                 | 999                      | 35,823               | 36,822              | 441,866                | 3,093,065                 |
| 64    | 3735    | 14,121                 | 1,998                    | 34,833               | 36,831              | 441,978                | 3,093,843                 |
| 65    | 2445    | 14,094                 | 0                        | 36,859               | 36,859              | 442,305                | 3,096,135                 |
| 66    | 2447    | 13,954                 | 1,998                    | 35,000               | 36,998              | 443,981                | 3,107,870                 |
| 67    | 5191    | 13,759                 | 999                      | 36,195               | 37,194              | 446,326                | 3,124,280                 |
| 68    | 4449    | 13,669                 | 999                      | 36,285               | 37,284              | 447,406                | 3,131,841                 |
| 69    | 2835    | 13,663                 | 999                      | 36,291               | 37,290              | 447,474                | 3,132,320                 |
| 70    | 430     | 13,550                 | 0                        | 37,402               | 37,402              | 448,825                | 3,141,777                 |
| 71    | 204     | 13,452                 | 999                      | 36,501               | 37,500              | 450,006                | 3,150,042                 |
| 72    | 2619    | 13,427                 | 999                      | 36,526               | 37,525              | 450,305                | 3,152,133                 |
| 73    | 385     | 13,380                 | 999                      | 36,573               | 37,572              | 450,869                | 3,156,086                 |
| 74    | 4447    | 13,088                 | 999                      | 36,865               | 37,864              | 454,368                | 3,180,575                 |
| 75    | 2718    | 12,928                 | 0                        | 38,025               | 38,025              | 456,298                | 3,194,088                 |
| 76    | 2180    | 12,895                 | 999                      | 37,058               | 38,057              | 456,683                | 3,196,782                 |
| 77    | 2901    | 12,806                 | 999                      | 37,148               | 38,147              | 457,760                | 3,204,319                 |
| 78    | 3644    | 12,691                 | 1,998                    | 36,264               | 38,262              | 459,138                | 3,213,969                 |
| 79    | 5145    | 12,618                 | 999                      | 37,336               | 38,335              | 460,018                | 3,220,126                 |
| Total |         |                        |                          |                      |                     | 28,808,962             | 201,662,733               |

Subsidising 79 new RAN sites will provide 4G coverage for 90,000 people and 109 schools and 18 clinics that currently do not have 4G coverage. Each of the new RAN sites covers at least 700 people per hexagon as illustrated in Table 3. Table 4 depicts a demand stimulation plan with an annual subsidy expected at N$29 million or N$202 million over seven years.

Table 5: Impact of the 79 proposed RAN sites (source: CRAN Portal)

|        |            | Current                | Current              | After 40 RAN sites   | After 40 RAN sites   | After 40 RAN sites       | After 40 RAN sites   |
|--------|------------|------------------------|----------------------|----------------------|----------------------|--------------------------|----------------------|
|        | Population | 4G Population Coverage | Policy Objective 80% | People reached       | Coverage Increase    | 4G Population Coverage | Policy Objective 80% |
| !Karas | 109,893    | 81%                    | Above                | 1,559                | 1.4%                 | 82%                      | Above                |
| Erongo | 240,206    | 95%                    | Above                |                      | 0.0%                 | 95%                      | Above                |
| Hardap | 106,680    | 79%                    | Below                | 2,059                | 1.9%                 | 81%                      | Above                |

Table 5 shows the number of regions that will benefit from this intervention. The Kunene and the Kavango West regions are among those identified below the 80% coverage threshold. Kunene's population coverage is set to increase from 49% to a promising 59%, while Kavango West is projected to experience a jump from 70% to 84%. The hexagons for Omaheke had fewer than 500 people per hexagon and a new suitable site could be identified.

| Kavango East   |   218,421 | 91%   | Above   |   11,139 | 5.1%   | 96%   | Above   |
|----------------|-----------|-------|---------|----------|--------|-------|---------|
| Kavango West   |   123,266 | 70%   | Below   |   17,971 | 14.6%  | 84%   | Above   |
| Khomas         |   494,605 | 98%   | Above   |          | 0.0%   | 98%   | Above   |
| Kunene         |   120,762 | 49%   | Below   |   11,120 | 9.2%   | 59%   | Below   |
| Ohang- wena    |   337,729 | 94%   | Above   |   10,332 | 3.1%   | 97%   | Above   |
| Omaheke        |   102,881 | 64%   | Below   |          | 0.0%   | 64%   | Below   |
| Omusati        |   316,671 | 96%   | Above   |    3,430 | 1.1%   | 97%   | Above   |
| Oshana         |   230,801 | 99%   | Above   |      807 | 0.3%   | 99%   | Above   |
| Oshikoto       |   257,302 | 84%   | Above   |   23,295 | 9.1%   | 93%   | Above   |
| Otjozon- djupa |   220,811 | 78%   | Below   |    3,962 | 1.8%   | 80%   | Above   |
| Zambezi        |   142,373 | 92%   | Above   |    4,670 | 3.3%   | 95%   | Above   |
| Namibia        | 3,022,401 | 88.4% | Above   |   90,344 | 3.0%   | 91.4% | Above   |

## 4. Budget Projections

The revenue obtained from a USF levy of 0.5% on the telecommunication sector is expected to yield about NAD 26 million per year. With revenues continuing to increase it is expected that the NAD 28 million per year can be matched. In 2023 revenues increased by 2.6% annually and it is expected to continue into 2024.

Table 6: ICT revenue trends

|                       |   2017 | 2018   | 2019   | 2020   | 2021   | 2022   | 2023   | 2024   |
|-----------------------|--------|--------|--------|--------|--------|--------|--------|--------|
| Revenue NAD million   |  4,499 | 4,821  | 4,902  | 5,102  | 5,090  | 5,237  | 5,373  | 5,513  |
| YoY                   |        | 7.1%   | 1.7%   | 4.1%   | -0.2%  | 2.9%   | 2.6%   | 2.6%   |
| 0.5% UAS contribution |   22.5 | 24.1   | 24.5   | 25.5   | 25.5   | 26.2   | 26.9   | 27.6   |
| 1% UAS contribution   |   45.0 | 48.2   | 49.0   | 51.0   | 50.9   | 52.4   | 53.7   | 55.1   |

## 5. Conclusion

In conclusion, the study's thorough analysis and proposed interventions represent significant steps in achieving universal ICT access in Namibia, ensuring that schools and the population at large will have 4G coverage. The emphasis on leveraging technology to narrow socio-economic disparities and propel the country towards a digital economy reflects Namibia's commitment to inclusive development.

The systematic approach utilised, including demand analysis, anchor tenant strategy, and grid profitability assessments assisted in identifying site selection for new RAN site deployment to address coverage gaps, especially in areas with high unmet demand.

A universal service levy of 0.5% would be able to fund 4G coverage for more than 90,000 Namibians and provide uncapped wifi to 109 schools and 18 clinics. Increasing the levy to 1% would cover an additional 32,000 Namibians with 4G and provide 49 schools and 8 clinics with WIFI.

By utilising the Universal Service Fund (USF) to subsidise mobile broadband expansion and stimulate demand, the strategy aims to ensure no citizen is left behind in the digital revolution. Moreover, the intervention strategy not only focuses on providing connectivity but also emphasises the role of schools as anchor tenants, thereby fostering sustainable long-term solutions. The collaboration between the regulator, mobile network operators, and the government is crucial to realising the vision of universal access for all.

## 6. References

Communication Act. (2009). Communication Act,2009. https://mict.gov.na/documents/32978/267050/ Communications+Act+8+of+2009.pdf/48ea8b68-beaf-4117-991f-df29084a7bee

CRAN (2021). Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, Universal Access Service Report,

CRAN (2022). Reaching universal access and service objectives through the assignment of 800MHz and 700MHz spectrum, https://www.cran.na/wp-content/uploads/2022/11/CRAN\_UAS-Study2022-Final.pdf

GSMA (2019). Operator Acceptance Values for Device Antenna Performance Version 4.0, https:// www.gsma.com/newsroom/wp-content/uploads/TS.24-v4.0.pdf

MICT (2019). National Broadband Policy for the Republic of Namibia: 2019- 2029. https://mict. gov.na/documents/32978/267050/National+Broadband+Policy+%28NBP%29+for+the+Repblic+of +Namibia/50c32ee1-43bb-40b6-bfd0-5334d0a46bbe

Universal Access and Service Policy. (2013). Government Gazette of the Republic of Namibia, No. 5169. https://mict.gov.na/documents/32978/267050/UAS+Policy.pdf/0a12681a-411b-47ac-83ce283265bc7f59

## 5. Appendix URLs for selected 79 RAN site locations

Table 7: URLs for 79 RAN sites

|   Grid ID | Region       | Constituency      | url_hex                                      |
|-----------|--------------|-------------------|----------------------------------------------|
|      2090 | Oshikoto     | Omuthiyagwiipundi | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2090 |
|      4276 | Kavango West | Musese            | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4276 |
|      2182 | Oshikoto     | Okankolo          | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2182 |
|      4686 | Kavango East | Rundu Rural       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4686 |
|      4935 | Kavango East | Ndonga Linena     | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4935 |
|      4271 | Kavango West | Ncamagoro         | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4271 |
|      2088 | Oshikoto     | Omuthiyagwiipundi | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2088 |
|      4360 | Kavango West | Ncamagoro         | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4360 |
|       699 | Omusati      | Onesi             | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=699  |
|      2179 | Oshikoto     | Omuthiyagwiipundi | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2179 |
|      2000 | Oshikoto     | Onyaanya          | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2000 |
|      2092 | Oshikoto     | Okankolo          | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2092 |
|      2093 | Ohangwena    | Epembe            | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2093 |
|      4534 | Kavango West | Ncuncuni          | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4534 |
|      2002 | Ohangwena    | Epembe            | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2002 |
|       364 | Kunene       | Epupa             | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=364  |
|      3737 | Kavango West | Mpungu            | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=3737 |
|      2266 | Oshikoto     | Eengondi          | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2266 |
|      2183 | Ohangwena    | Epembe            | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2183 |
|      5049 | Kavango East | Mukwe             | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=5049 |
|       174 | Kunene       | Epupa             | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=174  |
|       396 | Kunene       | Epupa             | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=396  |
|      4361 | Kavango West | Ncamagoro         | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4361 |
|      2352 | Oshikoto     | Eengondi          | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2352 |
|       432 | Kunene       | Epupa             | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=432  |
|      3550 | Kavango West | Mpungu            | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=3550 |
|      1911 | Oshikoto     | Onayena           | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=1911 |

| Grid ID   | Region              | Constituency                  | url_hex                                                                                  |
|-----------|---------------------|-------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 5156      | Zambezi             | Linyanti                      | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=5156                                             |
| 4608      | Otjozondjupa        | Tsumkwe                       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4608                                             |
| 2444      | Oshikoto            | Okankolo                      | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2444                                             |
| 2001      | Oshikoto            | Onyaanya                      | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2001                                             |
| 4685      | Kavango West        | Ncuncuni                      | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4685                                             |
| 5047      | Kavango East        | Mukwe                         | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=5047                                             |
| 4265      | Otjozondjupa        | Tsumkwe                       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4265                                             |
| 2178      | Oshikoto            | Omuthiyagwiipundi             | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2178                                             |
| 2005      | Ohangwena           | Eenhana                       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2005                                             |
| 2488      | Hardap              | Rehoboth East Urban           | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2488                                             |
| 395       | Kunene              | Epupa                         | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=395                                              |
| 5104      | Zambezi             | Kongola                       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=5104                                             |
| 5205      | Zambezi             | Kabbe South                   | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=5205                                             |
| 3030      | Hardap              | Mariental Urban               | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=3030                                             |
| 5045      | Kavango East        | Mukwe                         | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=5045                                             |
| 2358      | Ohangwena           | Oshikunde                     | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2358                                             |
| 4264      | Otjozondjupa        | Tsumkwe                       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4264                                             |
| 2004      | Ohangwena           | Eenhana                       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2004                                             |
| 4730      | Kavango East        | Rundu Rural                   | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4730                                             |
| 319       | Kunene              | Opuwo Rural                   | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=319                                              |
| 321       | Kunene              | Opuwo Rural                   | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=321                                              |
| 1819      | Oshikoto            | Omuntele                      | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=1819                                             |
| 578       | Omusati             | Ruacana                       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=578                                              |
| 5000      | Kavango East        | Ndiyona                       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=5000                                             |
| 362       |                     | Epupa                         | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=362                                              |
| 4523      | Kunene Otjozondjupa | Tsumkwe                       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4523                                             |
| 547       | Omusati             | Ruacana                       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=547                                              |
| 3918      | Kavango West        | Tondoro                       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=3918                                             |
| 1466      | Oshana              | Ompundja                      | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=1466                                             |
| 2531      | Oshikoto            | Nehale LyaMpingana            | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2531                                             |
| 3466      | !Karas              | Karasburg East                | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=3466                                             |
| 4798      | Kavango East        | Mashare                       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4798                                             |
| 4362      | Kavango West        | Kapako                        | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4362                                             |
| 3639      | Kavango West        | Mpungu                        | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=3639                                             |
| 2807      | Oshikoto            | Nehale LyaMpingana            | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2807                                             |
| 3735      | Kavango West        | Mpungu                        | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=3735                                             |
| 2445      | Ohangwena           | Oshikunde                     | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2445                                             |
| 2447      | Ohangwena           | Oshikunde                     | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2447                                             |
| 5191      | Zambezi             | Katima Mulilo Rural           | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=5191                                             |
| 4449      | Kavango West        | Kapako                        | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4449                                             |
| 2835      | !Karas              | Berseba                       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2835                                             |
| 430       | Kunene              | Opuwo Urban                   | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=430                                              |
| 204       | Kunene              | Epupa                         | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=204                                              |
| 2619 385  | Oshikoto Kunene     | Nehale LyaMpingana Sesfontein | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2619 https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=385 |
| 4447      | Kavango West        | Ncamagoro                     | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4447                                             |
| 2718      | Ohangwena           | Okongo                        | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2718                                             |
| 2180      | Oshikoto            | Eengondi                      | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2180                                             |

|   Grid ID | Region       | Constituency   | url_hex                                      |
|-----------|--------------|----------------|----------------------------------------------|
|      2901 | Ohangwena    | Okongo         | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2901 |
|      3644 | Kavango West | Mpungu         | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=3644 |
|      5145 | Zambezi      | Linyanti       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=5145 |

## 6. Appendix: Extra Ran Sites to reach 1% USF fee

Table 8: 55 additional RAN sites to reach 1% USF levy

|    |   Grid ID | Region              |                     |          |   longitude | Without 4G   | Without 4G   | Without 4G   | Total Subsidy   |
|----|-----------|---------------------|---------------------|----------|-------------|--------------|--------------|--------------|-----------------|
| #  |           |                     | Constituency        | latitude |             | People       | Schools      | Clinics    | Annually        |
| 1  |      2622 | Oshikoto            | Nehale LyaMpingana  | -17.9324 |     17.1903 | 698          | 1            | 0            | 460,618         |
| 2  |      2096 | Ohangwena           | Omundaungilo        | -17.4432 |     16.5066 | 697          | 0            | 0            | 460,829         |
| 3  |      5043 | Kavango East        | Mukwe               | -18.2247 |     21.0442 | 689          | 3            | 0            | 462,588         |
| 4  |       325 | Kunene              | Opuwo Rural         | -18.0646 |     13.5638 | 682          | 1            | 0            | 464,200         |
| 5  |      2620 | Oshikoto            | Nehale LyaMpingana  | -18.1826 |     17.1934 | 666          | 1            | 1            | 467,490         |
| 6  |      5033 | Kavango East        | Ndiyona             | -18.1661 |     20.9292 | 652          | 3            | 0            | 470,700         |
| 7  |      3364 | Kavango West        | Mpungu              | -17.6701 |     18.0914 | 650          | 2            | 0            | 470,954         |
| 8  |      5044 | Kavango East        | Mukwe               | -18.1002 |     21.0399 | 648          | 2            | 0            | 471,397         |
| 9  |      2534 | Ohangwena           | Oshikunde           | -17.4955 |     17.0720 | 648          | 1            | 0            | 471,465         |
| 10 |       587 | Omusati             | Ruacana             | -17.5053 |     14.3594 | 647          | 0            | 0            | 471,704         |
| 11 |      5055 | Kavango East        | Mukwe               | -18.1516 |     21.3804 | 645          | 2            | 1            | 472,194         |
| 12 |      5200 | Zambezi             | Kabbe South         | -17.8054 |     24.8448 | 644          | 1            | 0            | 472,424         |
| 13 |       577 | Omusati             | Ruacana             | -18.7576 |     14.3549 | 627          | 1            | 0            | 476,038         |
| 14 |      3336 | Otjozondjupa        | Omatako             | -21.1709 |     18.1584 | 627          |              |              | 476,095         |
| 15 |      5192 | Zambezi             | Katima Mulilo Rural | -17.8303 |     24.6265 | 619          | 0            | 0            | 477,620         |
| 16 |       178 | Kunene              | Epupa               | -17.3712 |     13.0047 | 615          | 1            | 0            | 478,571         |
| 17 |      2269 | Oshikoto            | Okankolo            | -17.9370 |     16.7373 | 614          | 1            | 0            | 478,699         |
| 18 |      4729 | Kavango East        | Rundu Rural         | -18.1324 |     19.9108 | 612          | 1            | 0            | 479,273         |
| 19 |      4274 | Kavango West        | Musese              | -18.1485 |     19.2323 | 611          | 2            | 1            | 479,408         |
| 20 |      2440 | Oshikoto            | Nehale LyaMpingana  | -18.3102 |     16.9680 | 608          | 1            | 0            | 480,076         |
| 21 |       682 | Kunene              | Kamanjab            | -19.7600 |     14.5800 | 607          | 1            | 1            | 480,369         |
| 22 |      4096 | Kavango West        | Mankumpi            | -18.4031 |     19.0118 | 603          | 1            | 0            | 481,128         |
| 23 |      2184 | Ohangwena           | Epembe              | -17.6249 |     16.6212 | 600          | 0            | 0            | 481,918         |
| 24 |      3920 | Kavango West        | Tondoro             | -17.7931 |     18.7659 | 598          | 0            | 0            | 482,233         |
| 25 |      2792 | Otjozondjupa        | Otavi               | -19.6815 |     17.4418 | 598          |              |              | 482,297         |
| 26 |      2533 | Ohangwena           | Oshikunde           | -17.6207 |     17.0734 | 586          | 1            | 0            | 484,800         |
| 27 |       636 | Omusati             | Ruacana             | -18.3196 |     14.4701 | 583          | 2            | 1            | 485,564         |
| 28 |       399 | Kunene              | Epupa               | -17.4399 |     13.7947 | 580          | 2            | 0            | 486,120         |
| 29 |       260 |                     | Epupa               | -17.9376 |     13.3382 | 578          | 1            | 0            | 486,603         |
| 30 |      3155 | Kunene Otjozondjupa | Okakarara           | -20.5501 |     17.9155 | 576          |              |              | 486,976         |
| 31 |       420 | Kunene              | Sesfontein          | -19.2565 |     13.8962 | 569          |              |              | 488,467         |
| 32 |      3556 | !Karas              | Karasburg East      | -28.4702 |     18.7169 | 567          | 1            | 1            | 489,014         |
| 33 |      2003 | Ohangwena           | Epembe              | -17.7518 |     16.3960 | 566          | 0            | 0            | 489,265         |
| 34 |       509 | Kunene              | Epupa               | -17.4317 |     14.1481 | 562          |              |              | 490,098         |
| 35 |      2717 | Ohangwena           | Okongo              | -17.4931 |     17.2979 | 558          | 0            | 0            | 490,932         |
| 36 |      3825 | Kavango West        | Tondoro             | -18.0979 |     18.6651 | 552          | 1            | 0            | 492,115         |

| #     | Grid ID   | Region       | Constituency       | latitude   | longitude   | Without 4G   | Without 4G   | Without 4G   | Total Subsidy Annually   |
|-------|-----------|--------------|--------------------|------------|-------------|--------------|--------------|--------------|--------------------------|
| #     | Grid ID   | Region       | Constituency       | latitude   | longitude   | People       | Schools      | Clinics    | Total Subsidy Annually   |
| 37    | 2006      | Ohangwena    | Omundaungilo       | -17.4121   | 16.3931     | 552          | 1            | 1            | 492,146                  |
| 38    | 3361      | Kavango West | Mpungu             | -18.0451   | 18.0979     | 540          | 1            | 0            | 494,696                  |
| 39    | 1211      | Oshana       | Uuvudhiya          | -17.9444   | 15.3777     | 530          | 1            | 0            | 496,896                  |
| 40    | 4098      | Kavango West | Musese             | -18.1534   | 19.0060     | 522          | 2            | 0            | 498,775                  |
| 41    | 1912      | Ohangwena    | Eenhana            | -17.8153   | 16.2833     | 521          | 0            | 0            | 498,953                  |
| 42    | 259       | Kunene       | Opuwo Rural        | -18.0628   | 13.3371     | 519          | 1            | 1            | 499,228                  |
| 43    | 4142      | Omaheke      | Aminuis            | -23.7074   | 19.2743     | 519          |              |              | 499,315                  |
| 44    | 4764      | Kavango East | Mashare            | -18.0673   | 20.0221     | 517          | 3            | 0            | 499,695                  |
| 45    | 2625      | Ohangwena    | Okongo             | -17.5569   | 17.1857     | 517          | 1            | 0            | 499,733                  |
| 46    | 1465      | Oshana       | Uuvudhiya          | -18.1314   | 15.7184     | 516          |              |              | 499,956                  |
| 47    | 2714      | Oshikoto     | Nehale LyaMpingana | -17.8684   | 17.3027     | 509          |              |              | 501,531                  |
| 48    | 390       | Kunene       | Opuwo Rural        | -18.5670   | 13.7870     | 508          |              |              | 501,617                  |
| 49    | 3059      | Otjozondjupa | Okakarara          | -20.8643   | 17.8062     | 508          |              |              | 501,778                  |
| 50    | 3734      | Kavango West | Tondoro            | -17.9123   | 18.5482     | 505          | 2            | 0            | 502,281                  |
| 51    | 423       | Kunene       | Opuwo Rural        | -18.8806   | 13.8987     | 504          | 1            | 0            | 502,560                  |
| 52    | 355       | Kunene       | Opuwo Rural        | -18.6288   | 13.6728     | 502          | 0            | 0            | 502,997                  |
| 53    | 1910      | Oshikoto     | Onyaanya           | -18.0657   | 16.2851     | 500          | 1            | 0            | 503,484                  |
| 54    | 3560      | !Karas       | Karasburg East     | -27.9711   | 18.6997     | 498          | 0            | 0            | 503,775                  |
| 55    | 2993      | Ohangwena    | Okongo             | -17.5514   | 17.6376     | 495          | 1            | 0            | 504,431                  |
| Total | Total     | Total        | Total              | Total      | Total       | 31,964       | 49           | 8            | 26,724,089               |

Table 9: 55 additional RAN sites to reach 1% USF levy - URLs

|   # |   Grid ID | Region       | Constituency        | URL                                          |
|-----|-----------|--------------|---------------------|----------------------------------------------|
|   1 |      2622 | Oshikoto     | Nehale LyaMpingana  | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2622 |
|   2 |      2096 | Ohangwena    | Omundaungilo        | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2096 |
|   3 |      5043 | Kavango East | Mukwe               | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=5043 |
|   4 |       325 | Kunene       | Opuwo Rural         | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=325  |
|   5 |      2620 | Oshikoto     | Nehale LyaMpingana  | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2620 |
|   6 |      5033 | Kavango East | Ndiyona             | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=5033 |
|   7 |      3364 | Kavango West | Mpungu              | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=3364 |
|   8 |      5044 | Kavango East | Mukwe               | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=5044 |
|   9 |      2534 | Ohangwena    | Oshikunde           | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2534 |
|  10 |       587 | Omusati      | Ruacana             | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=587  |
|  11 |      5055 | Kavango East | Mukwe               | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=5055 |
|  12 |      5200 | Zambezi      | Kabbe South         | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=5200 |
|  13 |       577 | Omusati      | Ruacana             | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=577  |
|  14 |      3336 | Otjozondjupa | Omatako             | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=3336 |
|  15 |      5192 | Zambezi      | Katima Mulilo Rural | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=5192 |
|  16 |       178 | Kunene       | Epupa               | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=178  |
|  17 |      2269 | Oshikoto     | Okankolo            | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2269 |
|  18 |      4729 | Kavango East | Rundu Rural         | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4729 |
|  19 |      4274 | Kavango West | Musese              | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4274 |
|  20 |      2440 | Oshikoto     | Nehale LyaMpingana  | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2440 |
|  21 |       682 | Kunene       | Kamanjab            | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=682  |

|   # |   Grid ID | Region       | Constituency       | URL                                          |
|-----|-----------|--------------|--------------------|----------------------------------------------|
|  22 |      4096 | Kavango West | Mankumpi           | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4096 |
|  23 |      2184 | Ohangwena    | Epembe             | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2184 |
|  24 |      3920 | Kavango West | Tondoro            | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=3920 |
|  25 |      2792 | Otjozondjupa | Otavi              | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2792 |
|  26 |      2533 | Ohangwena    | Oshikunde          | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2533 |
|  27 |       636 | Omusati      | Ruacana            | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=636  |
|  28 |       399 | Kunene       | Epupa              | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=399  |
|  29 |       260 | Kunene       | Epupa              | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=260  |
|  30 |      3155 | Otjozondjupa | Okakarara          | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=3155 |
|  31 |       420 | Kunene       | Sesfontein         | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=420  |
|  32 |      3556 | !Karas       | Karasburg East     | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=3556 |
|  33 |      2003 | Ohangwena    | Epembe             | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2003 |
|  34 |       509 | Kunene       | Epupa              | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=509  |
|  35 |      2717 | Ohangwena    | Okongo             | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2717 |
|  36 |      3825 | Kavango West | Tondoro            | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=3825 |
|  37 |      2006 | Ohangwena    | Omundaungilo       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2006 |
|  38 |      3361 | Kavango West | Mpungu             | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=3361 |
|  39 |      1211 | Oshana       | Uuvudhiya          | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=1211 |
|  40 |      4098 | Kavango West | Musese             | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4098 |
|  41 |      1912 | Ohangwena    | Eenhana            | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=1912 |
|  42 |       259 | Kunene       | Opuwo Rural        | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=259  |
|  43 |      4142 | Omaheke      | Aminuis            | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4142 |
|  44 |      4764 | Kavango East | Mashare            | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4764 |
|  45 |      2625 | Ohangwena    | Okongo             | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2625 |
|  46 |      1465 | Oshana       | Uuvudhiya          | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=1465 |
|  47 |      2714 | Oshikoto     | Nehale LyaMpingana | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2714 |
|  48 |       390 | Kunene       | Opuwo Rural        | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=390  |
|  49 |      3059 | Otjozondjupa | Okakarara          | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=3059 |
|  50 |      3734 | Kavango West | Tondoro            | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=3734 |
|  51 |       423 | Kunene       | Opuwo Rural        | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=423  |
|  52 |       355 | Kunene       | Opuwo Rural        | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=355  |
|  53 |      1910 | Oshikoto     | Onyaanya           | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=1910 |
|  54 |      3560 | !Karas       | Karasburg East     | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=3560 |
|  55 |      2993 | Ohangwena    | Okongo             | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2993 |

7. Appendix: Lifting Kunene and Omaheke above 80%

Table 10: Extra RAN sites for Omaheke

|   # | Grid   | Constituency   |   latitude |   longitude | Without 4G   | Without 4G   | Without 4G   |   Total Subsidy Annually |
|-----|--------|----------------|------------|-------------|--------------|--------------|--------------|--------------------------|
|     | ID     |                |            |             | People       | Schools      | Clinics      |                          |
|   1 | 4142   | Aminuis        |   -23.7074 |     19.2743 | 519          |              |              |              499314.9204 |
|   2 | 4316   | Aminuis        |   -23.8256 |     19.5134 | 482          |              |              |              507347.3358 |
|   3 | 4422   | Epukiro        |   -21.3890 |     19.5499 | 457          |              |              |              512632.0912 |
|   4 | 4232   | Aminuis        |   -23.3922 |     19.3813 | 453          |              |              |              513547.1534 |
|   5 | 4164   | Otjinene       |   -20.9611 |     19.1913 | 445          |              |              |              515263.4082 |
|   6 | 4491   | Aminuis        |   -23.4443 |     19.7347 | 390          |              |              |              527108.7757 |
|   7 | 4938   | Otjombinde     |   -21.7855 |     20.8354 | 375          |              |              |              530336.7074 |
|   8 | 3787   | Gobabis        |   -22.8456 |     18.7798 | 372          |              |              |              531146.2748 |
|   9 | 4578   | Aminuis        |   -23.2535 |     19.8450 | 367          |              |              |              532166.5047 |

|   # |   Grid ID | Constituency   |   latitude |   longitude |   People |   Without 4G Schools |   Clinics |   Total Subsidy Annually |
|-----|-----------|----------------|------------|-------------|----------|----------------------|-----------|--------------------------|
|  10 |      4836 | Otjombinde     |   -21.8599 |     20.4913 |      361 |                      |           |              533509.5065 |
|  11 |      4229 | Aminuis        |   -23.7666 |     19.3938 |      354 |                      |           |              534985.8475 |
|  12 |      3985 | Otjinene       |   -21.0916 |     18.9643 |      331 |                      |           |               540021.639 |
|  13 |      4406 | Aminuis        |   -23.3855 |     19.6155 |      326 |                      |           |              540954.0368 |
|  14 |      4838 | Otjombinde     |   -21.6108 |     20.4818 |      319 |                      |           |              542470.1121 |
|  15 |      4407 | Aminuis        |   -23.2606 |     19.6112 |      319 |                      |           |              542560.3922 |
|  16 |      4248 | Okarukambe     |   -21.3952 |     19.3191 |      318 |                      |           |              542638.1881 |
|  17 |      3802 | Otjinene       |   -20.9718 |     18.7306 |      312 |                      |           |              543996.8571 |
|  18 |      4230 | Aminuis        |   -23.6419 |     19.3896 |      310 |                    1 |         0 |              544379.7977 |
|  19 |      4322 | Aminuis        |   -23.0771 |     19.4880 |      309 |                      |           |              544772.7335 |
|  20 |      3882 | Gobabis        |   -22.5307 |     18.8877 |      303 |                    1 |         0 |              545898.3059 |
|  21 |      4150 | Kalahari       |   -22.7088 |     19.2426 |      298 |                    1 |         0 |              547062.9671 |
|  22 |      4237 | Kalahari       |   -22.7682 |     19.3611 |      287 |                      |           |              549449.7694 |
|  23 |      3895 | Otjinene       |   -20.9068 |     18.8442 |      287 |                      |           |              549456.8835 |
|  24 |      4071 | Okarukambe     |   -21.5260 |     19.0917 |      280 |                      |           |              550842.9831 |
|  25 |      4420 | Epukiro        |   -21.6387 |     19.5577 |      279 |                      |           |              551136.6348 |
|  26 |      3986 | Otjinene       |   -20.9666 |     18.9610 |      274 |                      |           |              552160.0417 |
|  27 |      4654 | Kalahari       |   -22.0654 |     19.9194 |      270 |                    1 |         0 |              553194.3796 |
|  28 |      4149 | Kalahari       |   -22.8338 |     19.2465 |      268 |                      |           |              553540.9573 |
|  29 |      4250 | Epukiro        |   -21.1454 |     19.3118 |      260 |                      |           |              555200.8768 |
|  30 |      4508 | Epukiro        |   -21.3235 |     19.6633 |      260 |                      |           |              555374.1812 |
|  31 |      3984 | Otjinene       |   -21.2165 |     18.9676 |      258 |                      |           |              555744.5265 |
|  32 |      4245 | Okarukambe     |   -21.7697 |     19.3302 |      257 |                      |           |              555833.6556 |
|  33 |      4903 | Otjombinde     |   -21.9611 |     20.7273 |      254 |                      |           |              556497.1177 |
|  34 |      4737 | Otjombinde     |   -21.4347 |     20.1288 |      250 |                      |           |              557440.5686 |
|  35 |      4405 | Aminuis        |   -23.5104 |     19.6198 |      250 |                      |           |              557508.0792 |
|  36 |      4063 | Kalahari       |   -22.5249 |     19.1205 |      248 |                      |           |              557882.9205 |
|  37 |      4318 | Aminuis        |   -23.5760 |     19.5048 |      242 |                      |           |              559107.0829 |
|  38 |      3610 | Okarukambe     |   -21.7263 |     18.5181 |      232 |                      |           |              561232.8574 |
|  39 |      4871 | Otjombinde     |   -21.7935 |     20.6044 |      226 |                      |           |              562604.9527 |
|  40 |      3692 | Aminuis        |   -23.1605 |     18.6716 |      225 |                      |           |              562730.7189 |
|  41 |      4403 | Aminuis        |   -23.7598 |     19.6286 |      222 |                      |           |              563539.0541 |
|  42 |      4159 | Okarukambe     |   -21.5853 |     19.2090 |      220 |                      |           |              563998.3374 |
|  43 |      4587 | Kalahari       |   -22.1310 |     19.8056 |      212 |                      |           |                  565,597 |
|  44 |      4802 | Otjombinde     |   -21.8012 |     20.3733 |      211 |                      |           |              565922.3842 |
|  45 |      3893 | Otjinene       |   -21.1565 |     18.8507 |      211 |                      |           |              565956.1907 |
|  46 |      3973 | Gobabis        |   -22.5900 |     19.0059 |      208 |                    1 |         0 |              566570.7942 |
|  47 |      3698 | Gobabis        |   -22.4111 |     18.6515 |      207 |                      |           |              566630.3414 |
|  48 |      3701 | Okarukambe     |   -22.0363 |     18.6418 |      206 |                      |           |              567016.5603 |
|  49 |      3968 | Aminuis        |   -23.2145 |     19.0243 |      201 |                      |           |              568017.9781 |
|  50 |      3507 | Gobabis        |   -23.0409 |     18.4344 |      196 |                      |           |              569119.3667 |
|  51 |      3885 | Okarukambe     |   -22.1558 |     18.8773 |      194 |                      |           |              569584.2173 |
|  52 |      4981 | Otjombinde     |   -20.5986 |     20.9036 |      185 |                    0 |         0 |              571437.2596 |
|  53 |      3509 | Gobabis        |   -22.7911 |     18.4281 |      180 |                      |           |              572634.9355 |
|  54 |      4701 | Otjombinde     |   -21.6254 |     20.0199 |      179 |                      |           |              572672.7546 |
|  55 |      4061 | Kalahari       |   -22.7745 |     19.1280 |      175 |                      |           |              573537.0639 |
|  56 |      3327 | Okarukambe     |   -22.2958 |     18.1831 |      166 |                      |           |              575648.6297 |
|  57 |      4317 | Aminuis        |   -23.7007 |     19.5091 |      159 |                      |           |               577139.989 |
|  58 |      4972 | Otjombinde     |   -21.7193 |     20.9437 |      159 |                      |           |              577182.0818 |

| #     | Grid ID   | Constituency   | latitude   | longitude   | Without 4G   | Without 4G   | Without 4G   | Total Subsidy Annually   |
|-------|-----------|----------------|------------|-------------|--------------|--------------|--------------|--------------------------|
| #     | Grid ID   | Constituency   | latitude   | longitude   | People       | Schools      | Clinics      | Total Subsidy Annually   |
| 59    | 3708      | Okarukambe     | -21.1616   | 18.6200     | 158          |              |              | 577245.3198              |
| 60    | 3600      | Gobabis        | -22.9760   | 18.5496     | 154          |              |              | 578121.3251              |
| Total | Total     | Total          | Total      | Total       | 16,430       | 5            | 0            | 33136623.89              |

Table 11: Extra RAN sites for Omaheke -URL

|   # |   Grid ID | Constituency   | URLs                                         |
|-----|-----------|----------------|----------------------------------------------|
|   1 |      4142 | Aminuis        | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4142 |
|   2 |      4316 | Aminuis        | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4316 |
|   3 |      4422 | Epukiro        | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4422 |
|   4 |      4232 | Aminuis        | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4232 |
|   5 |      4164 | Otjinene       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4164 |
|   6 |      4491 | Aminuis        | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4491 |
|   7 |      4938 | Otjombinde     | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4938 |
|   8 |      3787 | Gobabis        | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=3787 |
|   9 |      4578 | Aminuis        | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4578 |
|  10 |      4836 | Otjombinde     | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4836 |
|  11 |      4229 | Aminuis        | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4229 |
|  12 |      3985 | Otjinene       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=3985 |
|  13 |      4406 | Aminuis        | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4406 |
|  14 |      4838 | Otjombinde     | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4838 |
|  15 |      4407 | Aminuis        | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4407 |
|  16 |      4248 | Okarukambe     | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4248 |
|  17 |      3802 | Otjinene       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=3802 |
|  18 |      4230 | Aminuis        | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4230 |
|  19 |      4322 | Aminuis        | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4322 |
|  20 |      3882 | Gobabis        | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=3882 |
|  21 |      4150 | Kalahari       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4150 |
|  22 |      4237 | Kalahari       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4237 |
|  23 |      3895 | Otjinene       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=3895 |
|  24 |      4071 | Okarukambe     | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4071 |
|  25 |      4420 | Epukiro        | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4420 |
|  26 |      3986 | Otjinene       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=3986 |
|  27 |      4654 | Kalahari       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4654 |
|  28 |      4149 | Kalahari       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4149 |
|  29 |      4250 | Epukiro        | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4250 |
|  30 |      4508 | Epukiro        | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4508 |
|  31 |      3984 | Otjinene       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=3984 |
|  32 |      4245 | Okarukambe     | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4245 |
|  33 |      4903 | Otjombinde     | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4903 |
|  34 |      4737 | Otjombinde     | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4737 |
|  35 |      4405 | Aminuis        | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4405 |
|  36 |      4063 | Kalahari       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4063 |
|  37 |      4318 | Aminuis        | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4318 |
|  38 |      3610 | Okarukambe     | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=3610 |
|  39 |      4871 | Otjombinde     | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4871 |
|  40 |      3692 | Aminuis        | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=3692 |
|  41 |      4403 | Aminuis        | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4403 |
|  42 |      4159 | Okarukambe     | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4159 |
|  43 |      4587 | Kalahari       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4587 |

| #     | Grid ID   | Constituency   | URLs                                         |
|-------|-----------|----------------|----------------------------------------------|
| 44    | 4802      | Otjombinde     | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4802 |
| 45    | 3893      | Otjinene       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=3893 |
| 46    | 3973      | Gobabis        | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=3973 |
| 47    | 3698      | Gobabis        | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=3698 |
| 48    | 3701      | Okarukambe     | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=3701 |
| 49    | 3968      | Aminuis        | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=3968 |
| 50    | 3507      | Gobabis        | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=3507 |
| 51    | 3885      | Okarukambe     | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=3885 |
| 52    | 4981      | Otjombinde     | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4981 |
| 53    | 3509      | Gobabis        | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=3509 |
| 54    | 4701      | Otjombinde     | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4701 |
| 55    | 4061      | Kalahari       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4061 |
| 56    | 3327      | Okarukambe     | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=3327 |
| 57    | 4317      | Aminuis        | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4317 |
| 58    | 4972      | Otjombinde     | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=4972 |
| 59    | 3708      | Okarukambe     | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=3708 |
| 60    | 3600      | Gobabis        | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=3600 |
| Total | Total     | Total          | Total                                        |

Table 12: Extra RAN sites for Kunene

|   # | Grid   | Constituency   |   latitude |   longitude | Without 4G   | Without 4G   | Without 4G   |   Total Subsidy Annually |
|-----|--------|----------------|------------|-------------|--------------|--------------|--------------|--------------------------|
|     | ID     |                |            |             | People       | Schools      | Clinics      |                          |
|   1 | 325    | Opuwo Rural    |   -18.0646 |     13.5638 | 682          | 1            | 0            |                  464,200 |
|   2 | 178    | Epupa          |   -17.3712 |     13.0047 | 615          | 1            | 0            |                  478,571 |
|   3 | 682    | Kamanjab       |   -19.7600 |     14.5800 | 607          | 1            | 1            |                  480,369 |
|   4 | 399    | Epupa          |   -17.4399 |     13.7947 | 580          | 2            | 0            |                  486,120 |
|   5 | 260    | Epupa          |   -17.9376 |     13.3382 | 578          | 1            | 0            |                  486,603 |
|   6 | 420    | Sesfontein     |   -19.2565 |     13.8962 | 569          |              |              |                  488,467 |
|   7 | 509    | Epupa          |   -17.4317 |     14.1481 | 562          |              |              |                  490,098 |
|   8 | 259    | Opuwo Rural    |   -18.0628 |     13.3371 | 519          | 1            | 1            |                  499,228 |
|   9 | 390    | Opuwo Rural    |   -18.5670 |     13.7870 | 508          |              |              |                  501,617 |
|  10 | 423    | Opuwo Rural    |   -18.8806 |     13.8987 | 504          | 1            | 0            |                  502,560 |
|  11 | 355    | Opuwo Rural    |   -18.6288 |     13.6728 | 502          | 0            | 0            |                  502,997 |
|  12 | 541    | Opuwo Urban    |   -18.1937 |     14.2435 | 484          |              |              |                  506,785 |
|  13 | 320    | Opuwo Rural    |   -18.6907 |     13.5586 | 484          |              |              |                  506,975 |
|  14 | 957    | Kamanjab       |   -19.6353 |     15.0382 | 483          |              |              |                  507,173 |
|  15 | 626    | Sesfontein     |   -19.5719 |     14.4661 | 480          |              |              |                  507,842 |
|  16 | 202    | Epupa          |   -17.6853 |     13.1144 | 477          |              |              |                  508,493 |
|  17 | 360    | Epupa          |   -18.0028 |     13.6776 | 468          | 2            | 0            |                  510,270 |
|  18 | 297    | Epupa          |   -17.3752 |     13.4563 | 463          | 1            | 0            |                  511,433 |
|  19 | 354    | Opuwo Rural    |   -18.7540 |     13.6719 | 457          | 1            | 0            |                  512,778 |
|  20 | 507    | Epupa          |   -17.6297 |     14.1328 | 451          | 2            | 0            |                  514,092 |
|  21 | 393    | Opuwo Urban    |   -18.1913 |     13.7896 | 449          | 1            | 0            |                  514,501 |
|  22 | 470    | Epupa          |   -17.5666 |     14.0200 | 444          | 0            | 0            |                  515,525 |
|  23 | 425    | Opuwo Rural    |   -18.6303 |     13.9003 | 440          | 1            | 1            |                  516,484 |
|  24 | 460    | Opuwo Rural    |   -18.8188 |     14.0130 | 438          |              |              |                  516,800 |
|  25 | 571    | Sesfontein     |   -19.5090 |     14.3519 | 433          |              |              |                  517,932 |
|  26 | 500    | Opuwo Rural    |   -18.5063 |     14.1285 | 431          | 1            | 0            |                  518,302 |
|  27 | 1028   | Khorixas       |   -20.4492 |     15.1534 | 408          | 1            | 0            |                  523,232 |
|  28 | 328    | Epupa          |   -17.6891 |     13.5668 | 408          |              |              |                  523,265 |

| #     | Grid   | Constituency   |   latitude |   longitude | Without 4G   | Without 4G   | Without 4G   | Total Subsidy   |
|-------|--------|----------------|------------|-------------|--------------|--------------|--------------|-----------------|
|       | ID     |                |            |             | People       | Schools      | Clinics      | Annually        |
| 29    | 431    | Epupa          |   -17.8789 |     13.9050 | 406          | 1            | 0            | 523,781         |
| 30    | 625    | Sesfontein     |   -19.6973 |     14.4657 | 379          |              |              | 529,519         |
| 31    | 1276   | Kamanjab       |   -20.2608 |     15.4979 | 379          |              |              | 529,646         |
| 32    | 1275   | Kamanjab       |   -20.3860 |     15.4983 | 376          |              |              | 530,298         |
| 33    | 415    | Sesfontein     |   -19.8822 |     13.8919 | 370          |              |              | 531,472         |
| 34    | 262    | Epupa          |   -17.6874 |     13.3406 | 368          | 1            | 0            | 531,941         |
| 35    | 1110   | Kamanjab       |   -20.2613 |     15.2681 | 357          |              |              | 534,334         |
| 36    | 400    | Epupa          |   -17.3361 |     13.7819 | 354          | 1            | 1            | 534,861         |
| 37    | 1029   | Kamanjab       |   -20.3239 |     15.1533 | 334          |              |              | 539,378         |
| 38    | 496    | Sesfontein     |   -19.0072 |     14.1259 | 333          |              |              | 539,582         |
| 39    | 322    | Opuwo Rural    |   -18.4401 |     13.5607 | 332          |              |              | 539,625         |
| 40    | 451    | Sesfontein     |   -19.9456 |     14.0062 | 326          |              |              | 540,922         |
| 41    | 624    | Sesfontein     |   -19.8224 |     14.4653 | 322          |              |              | 541,932         |
| 42    | 267    | Epupa          |   -17.0612 |     13.3462 | 319          |              |              | 542,445         |
| 43    | 329    | Epupa          |   -17.5638 |     13.5678 | 311          | 1            | 0            | 544,170         |
| 44    | 234    | Epupa          |   -17.3733 |     13.2305 | 305          |              |              | 545,543         |
| 45    | 351    | Sesfontein     |   -19.1298 |     13.6689 | 287          | 0            | 0            | 549,440         |
| 46    | 1280   | Kamanjab       |   -19.7598 |     15.4964 | 277          |              |              | 551,604         |
| 47    | 167    | Opuwo Rural    |   -18.7479 |     12.9891 | 276          | 1            | 0            | 551,773         |
| 48    | 952    | Khorixas       |   -20.2615 |     15.0383 | 272          | 0            | 0            | 552,589         |
| 49    | 330    | Epupa          |   -17.4384 |     13.5688 | 270          |              |              | 553,021         |
| 50    | 365    | Epupa          |   -17.3768 |     13.6822 | 270          |              |              | 553,021         |
| 51    | 292    | Epupa          |   -18.0012 |     13.4510 | 268          |              |              | 553,518         |
| 52    | 2079   | Outjo          |   -19.5663 |     16.5253 | 267          |              |              | 553,734         |
| 53    | 574    | Sesfontein     |   -19.1335 |     14.3534 | 265          |              |              | 554,201         |
| 54    | 1193   | Kamanjab       |   -20.1984 |     15.3829 | 265          |              |              | 554,202         |
| 55    | 878    | Khorixas       |   -20.1988 |     14.9234 | 255          |              |              | 556,245         |
| 56    | 2077   | Outjo          |   -19.8167 |     16.5277 | 254          |              |              | 556,472         |
| 57    | 570    | Sesfontein     |   -19.6342 |     14.3514 | 249          | 0            | 0            | 557,582         |
| 58    | 873    | Khorixas       |   -20.8249 |     14.9231 | 248          |              |              | 557,810         |
| 59    | 569    | Sesfontein     |   -19.7593 |     14.3509 | 246          |              |              | 558,279         |
| 60    | 1625   | Outjo          |   -20.0084 |     15.9560 | 240          |              |              | 559,558         |
| Total |        |                |            |             | 23,704       | 23           | 4            | 31,565,211      |

Table 13: Extra RAN sites for Kunene - URLs

|   # |   Grid ID | Constituency   | URL                                         |
|-----|-----------|----------------|---------------------------------------------|
|   1 |       325 | Opuwo Rural    | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=325 |
|   2 |       178 | Epupa          | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=178 |
|   3 |       682 | Kamanjab       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=682 |
|   4 |       399 | Epupa          | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=399 |
|   5 |       260 | Epupa          | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=260 |
|   6 |       420 | Sesfontein     | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=420 |
|   7 |       509 | Epupa          | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=509 |
|   8 |       259 | Opuwo Rural    | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=259 |
|   9 |       390 | Opuwo Rural    | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=390 |
|  10 |       423 | Opuwo Rural    | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=423 |
|  11 |       355 | Opuwo Rural    | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=355 |
|  12 |       541 | Opuwo Urban    | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=541 |
|  13 |       320 | Opuwo Rural    | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=320 |

|   # |   Grid ID | Constituency   | URL                                          |
|-----|-----------|----------------|----------------------------------------------|
|  14 |       957 | Kamanjab       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=957  |
|  15 |       626 | Sesfontein     | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=626  |
|  16 |       202 | Epupa          | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=202  |
|  17 |       360 | Epupa          | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=360  |
|  18 |       297 | Epupa          | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=297  |
|  19 |       354 | Opuwo Rural    | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=354  |
|  20 |       507 | Epupa          | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=507  |
|  21 |       393 | Opuwo Urban    | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=393  |
|  22 |       470 | Epupa          | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=470  |
|  23 |       425 | Opuwo Rural    | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=425  |
|  24 |       460 | Opuwo Rural    | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=460  |
|  25 |       571 | Sesfontein     | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=571  |
|  26 |       500 | Opuwo Rural    | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=500  |
|  27 |      1028 | Khorixas       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=1028 |
|  28 |       328 | Epupa          | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=328  |
|  29 |       431 | Epupa          | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=431  |
|  30 |       625 | Sesfontein     | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=625  |
|  31 |      1276 | Kamanjab       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=1276 |
|  32 |      1275 | Kamanjab       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=1275 |
|  33 |       415 | Sesfontein     | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=415  |
|  34 |       262 | Epupa          | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=262  |
|  35 |      1110 | Kamanjab       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=1110 |
|  36 |       400 | Epupa          | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=400  |
|  37 |      1029 | Kamanjab       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=1029 |
|  38 |       496 | Sesfontein     | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=496  |
|  39 |       322 | Opuwo Rural    | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=322  |
|  40 |       451 | Sesfontein     | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=451  |
|  41 |       624 | Sesfontein     | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=624  |
|  42 |       267 | Epupa          | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=267  |
|  43 |       329 | Epupa          | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=329  |
|  44 |       234 | Epupa          | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=234  |
|  45 |       351 | Sesfontein     | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=351  |
|  46 |      1280 | Kamanjab       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=1280 |
|  47 |       167 | Opuwo Rural    | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=167  |
|  48 |       952 | Khorixas       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=952  |
|  49 |       330 | Epupa          | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=330  |
|  50 |       365 | Epupa          | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=365  |
|  51 |       292 | Epupa          | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=292  |
|  52 |      2079 | Outjo          | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2079 |
|  53 |       574 | Sesfontein     | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=574  |
|  54 |      1193 | Kamanjab       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=1193 |
|  55 |       878 | Khorixas       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=878  |
|  56 |      2077 | Outjo          | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=2077 |
|  57 |       570 | Sesfontein     | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=570  |
|  58 |       873 | Khorixas       | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=873  |
|  59 |       569 | Sesfontein     | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=569  |
|  60 |      1625 | Outjo          | https://dy58s6rtmt652.cloudfront.net/#g=1625 |

Table 14: Population coverage impact of extra RAN sites for Kunene and Omaheke

|         |            | Current     | Current              |                        | After 40 RAN sites   | After 40 RAN sites   | After 40 RAN sites     | After 40 RAN sites   |
|---------|------------|-------------|----------------------|------------------------|----------------------|----------------------|------------------------|----------------------|
|         | Population | 4G Coverage | Policy Objective 80% | People reached phase 1 | People reached extra | Coverage Increase    | 4G Population Coverage | Policy Objective 80% |
| Kunene  | 120,762    | 49%         | Below                | 11,120                 | 34,824               | 28.8%                | 78%                    | Below                |
| Omaheke | 102,881    | 64%         | Below                |                        | 16,430               | 16.0%                | 80%                    | Above                |

---

No. 293

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF SECTION 53(7) OF THE COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009 READ WITH THE REGULATIONS REGARDING THE SUBMISSIONS OF INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENTS AND TARIFFS

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of section 53(1) of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009) read with regulation 8 of the 'Regulations regarding the Submission of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs', in Government Gazette No. 4714, General Notice No. 126, dated 18 May 2011, herewith gives notice that it has approved: the Home and Business Air Fiber tariffs as set out below, submitted by Rocketnet Internet Namibia, which come into force and effect on 3 May 2024 , notwithstanding the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette;

| Package Name              | Speed in Mbps             | Duration                  | Price to End User         |
|---------------------------|---------------------------|---------------------------|---------------------------|
| Basic                     | 30                        | 12-month                  | N$699.00                  |
| Premium                   | 60                        | 12-month                  | N$899.00                  |
| Hyper                     | 100                       | 12-month                  | N$1,299.00                |
| Installation fee N$ 1,500 | Installation fee N$ 1,500 | Installation fee N$ 1,500 | Installation fee N$ 1,500 |

Please note that the full tariff submission and reasons for approval can be obtained from the Authority.

**E. NGHIKEMBUA**  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

No. 294

NOTICE IN TERMS OF REGULATION 19(1) OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING LICENSING PROCEDURES FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND BROADCASTING SERVICE LICENCES: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009.

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of regulation 19(1) of the Regulations regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences, published in Government Gazette No. 4785, as General Notice. 272, on 29 August 2011 (as amended), hereby gives notice of the following decisions:

## 1. Telecommunications Service Licences

- (a) The Authority resolved to award a Class (ECNS) Telecommunications Service Licence to BANK OF NAMIBIA .

- (b) The Authority resolved to amend the Class Network Facilities Telecommunications Service Licence to Class Comprehensive Telecommunications Service Licence (ECS and ECNS) awarded to FIBER COMMUNICATIONS NAMIBIA (PTY) LTD.
- (c) The Authority resolved to award a Class Comprehensive Telecommunications Service Licence (ECS &amp; ECNS) to VISTA FINANCIAL SERVICES CC .

## 2. Spectrum Licences

- (a) The Authority resolved to award a Spectrum Licence in the KU band for the provision of Fixed Satelite services to Africa Online (Pty) Ltd as set out hereunder

̶

| Group of radio Frequencies applied for                                                                  | Geographical coverage areas   | Service to be provided   |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------|--------------------------|
| Downlink 11293.500-11294.00 MHz Bandwidth = 0.5 MHz Uplink 14399.400-14399.600 MHz Bandwidth = 0.2 MHz  | National                      | FIXED SATELLITE          |
| Downlink 11724.640-11727.240 MHz Bandwidth = 2.6 MHz                                                    | National                      | FIXED SATELLITE          |
| Uplink 14017.650-14018.350 MHz Bandwidth = 0.7 MHz                                                      | National                      | FIXED SATELLITE          |
| Downlink 11861.040-11861.640 MHz Bandwidth = 0.6 MHz Uplink 14120.400-14120.600 MHz Bandwidth = 0.2 MHz | National                      | FIXED SATELLITE          |
| Downlink 12616.900-12618.900 MHz Bandwidth = 2 MHz Uplink 14487.750-14488.250 MHz                       | National                      | FIXED SATELLITE          |
| Bandwidth = 0.5 MHz                                                                                     | National                      | FIXED SATELLITE          |

̶

- (b) The Authority resolved to award a Spectrum Licence in the KA band for the provision of Fixed Satelite services to Africa Online (Pty) Ltd as set out hereunder

| Licensee                | Group of radio Frequencies applied for                                            | Geographical coverage areas   | Service to be provided   |
|-------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------|--------------------------|
| Africa Online (Pty) Ltd | Downlink 19772.2 - 19772.8 MHz BW=0.6 MHz Uplink 28072.4 - 28072.6 MHz BW=0.2 MHz | National                      | FIXED SATELLITE          |
| Africa Online (Pty) Ltd | Downlink 19993.85-19994.65 MHz BW=0.8 MHz Uplink 28072.35-28072.65 MHz BW=0.3 MHz | National                      | FIXED SATELLITE          |

̶

## (c) The Authority resolved to award a Spectrum Licence for the provision of broadcasting services to Gospel Mission Ministries as set out hereunder

| Radio frequency being considered for assignment by the Authority;   | Maximum output power   | Geographic coverage areas        | Services to be provided   |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------|----------------------------------|---------------------------|
| 98.6 MHz                                                              | 100W                   | Windhoek, Khomas Region          | BROADCASTING              |
| 88.1 MHz                                                              | 500W                   | Mariental, Hardap Region         | BROADCASTING              |
| 87.7 MHz                                                              | 100W                   | Swakopmund, Erongo Region        | BROADCASTING              |
| 88.2 MHz                                                              | 100W                   | Otjiwarongo, Otjozondjupa Region | BROADCASTING              |
| 88.2 MHz                                                              | 250W                   | Groot Aub, Khomas Region         | BROADCASTING              |

̶

## (d) The Authority resolved to amend the spectrum licences in the 2600 MHz band awarded to Paratus Telecommunication (Pty) Ltd as set out hereunder

| Licensee Name                          | Percentage of Stock owned by Namibian Citizens or Namibian Companies controlled by Namibian Citizens   | Grounds for amendment                                                                                        | Description of geographic coverage area(s)   | Current frequencies Assigned;           | New frequencies to be assigned after a mendment;   | Service to be provided   |
|----------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|--------------------------|
| Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd | 100%                                                                                                   | To obtain a contiguous block for orderly spectrum management and to ensure efficient utilization of spectrum | National                                     | 2505-2525 MHz (TDD) 2625-2645 MHz (TDD) | 2650-2690 MHz (TDD)                                | MOBILE (IMT)             |

̶

- (e) The Authority resolved to amend the Spectrum Licences in the 2600 MHz band awarded to Telecom Namibia Limited as set out hereunder

| Licensee Name           | Percentage of Stock owned by Namibian Citizens or Namibian Companies controlled by Namibian Citizens   | Grounds for Amendment                                                                                        | Description of geographic coverage area(s)   | Current Frequencies Assigned            | New Frequencies to be assigned after amendment   | Service to be provided   |
|-------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|--------------------------|
| Telecom Namibia Limited | 100%                                                                                                   | To obtain a contiguous block for orderly spectrum management and to ensure efficient utilisation of spectrum | National                                     | 2540-2592 MHz (TDD) 2656-2690 MHz (TDD) | 2500-2592 MHz (TDD)                              | MOBILE (IMT)             |

̶

## (f) The Authority resolved to cancel the Spectrum Licence awarded to Telecom Namibia Limited as set out hereunder

| Radio Frequencies   | Services    | Date assigned     |
|---------------------|-------------|-------------------|
| 2348 - 2386 MHz     | FIXED (TDD) | 13 September 2012 |

̶

## (g) The Authority resolved to award a Temporary Spectrum Licence for the provision of Mobile Satellite services to Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd as set out hereunder

| Licensee                             | Group of radio Frequencies applied for                                            | Geographical coverage areas                                 | Service to be provided                                                                                                 |
|--------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd | 14.0625-14.1875 GHz (BW=125 MHz) Uplink 11.075 - 11.325 GHz (BW=250 MHz) Downlink | National National (Republic of Namibia or any part thereof) | MOBILE SATELLITE (Temporary testing of Eutelsat- One Web Non-Geostationary Satellite network for a period of 5 months) |

̶

## (h) The Authority resolved to award a Spectrum Licence for the provision of broadcasting services to SHIPI FM as set out hereunder

| Radio frequency being considered for assignment by the Authority;   | Maximum output power   | Geographic coverage areas       | Services to be provided   |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------|---------------------------------|---------------------------|
| 96.2 MHz                                                              | 100W                   | Katima Mulilo, Zambezi Region   | BROADCASTING              |
| 88.0 MHz                                                              | 250W                   | Karibib, Erongo Region          | BROADCASTING              |
| 87.7 MHz                                                              | 250W                   | Luderitz, Karas Region          | BROADCASTING              |
| 91.8 MHz                                                              | 100W                   | Oranjemund, Karas Region        | BROADCASTING              |
| 93.5 MHz                                                              | 100W                   | Nkurenkuru, Kavango West Region | BROADCASTING              |
| 91.8 MHz                                                              | 250W                   | Gobabis, Omaheke Region         | BROADCASTING              |

Save for the Authority's decision to amend all the Spectrum Licences in the 2600 MHz band awarded to Telecom Namibia Limited which is effective from 31 July 2024, all the other decisions are effective from the date of publication of this Notice.

The full reasons for the decisions can be requested from the Authority. In terms of section 31 of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No.8 of 2009), the Authority may, on its own motion or on a petition filed by an aggrieved party to any proceedings, reconsider any order or decision that it has made, within 90 days of this notice.

**DR. T. MUFETI**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

No. 295

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING LICENSING PROCEDURES FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND BROADCASTING SERVICE LICENCES

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of regulations 11 of the Regulations regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licence, published as General Notice No. 272, in Government Gazette No. 4785, on 29 August 2011 (as amended), hereby gives notice that the Applicant referred to in the table below has submitted the following application:

## Application for a Telecommunications Service Licence

| Applicant;                          | Applicant's place of incorporation;   | Percentage of Stock owned or controlled by Namibian;   | Category of Licence applied for;                                       | Concise statement on Services intended to be provided;                                                                                         | Description of geographic coverage area(s);   | Proof of Licence Application Fees Paid Up to Date Submitted?   |
|-------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------|
| Oryx Fibre Infrastructure Pty Ltd | Namibia                               | 88%                                                    | Class Comprehensive telecommunications service licence (ECS& ECNS) | To create an infrastructure asset enabling large business owners and service providers to make use of high-speed bulk fibre backhaul services. | Namibia                                       | Yes                                                            |

The public may submit comments in writing to the Authority within a period of fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette .

The applicant may submit written reply comments within fourteen (14) days from the due date of the written public comments.

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submission is made, if different and be clear and concise.

All written submissions and reply comments must be made either physically or electronically -

- (1) by hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;

- (2) by post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek 9000; and
- (3) by electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na.

**E. NGHIKEMBUA**  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

No. 296

NOTICE OF APPLICATION FOR RECONSIDERATION IN TERMS OF SECTION 31 OF THE COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009 AND REGULATIONS 36(2) OF THE REGULTIONS PRESCRIBING PROCEDURES REGARDING APPLICATION FOR, AND AMENDMENT, RENEWAL OR TRANSFER OF SPECTRUM LICENSES

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of section 31 of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009) read with regulations 36(2) of the 'Regulations Prescribing Procedures Regarding Application for, and Amendment, Renewal or Transfer of Spectrum Licenses, published as General Notice No. 104, in Government Gazette No. 6888 dated 29 April 2019, herewith gives notice that UCOM Mobile Namibia (Pty) Ltd has submitted an application for reconsideration, in respect of a decision by the Authority to cancel all spectrum licences awarded as per a decision published in Government Gazette No. 8291, General Notice No. 8 dated 18 January 2024.

The reasons and grounds for the application for reconsideration are contained in the application that can be inspected at the offices of the Authority.

The public may submit comments in writing to the Authority within a period of fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette .

The applicant may submit written reply comments within fourteen (14) days from the due date of the written public comments.

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submission is made, if different and be clear and concise.

All written submissions and reply comments must be made either physically or electronically -

- (1) by hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (2) by post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek 9000; and
- (3) by electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na.

**E. NGHIKEMBUA**  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

No. 297

NOTICE OF APPLICATION FOR RECONSIDERATION IN TERMS OF SECTION 31 OF THE COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009 AND REGULATIONS 36(2) OF THE REGULATIONS PRESCRIBING PROCEDURES REGARDING APPLICATION FOR, AND AMENDMENT, RENEWAL OR TRANSFER OF SPECTRUM LICENSES

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of section 31 of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009) read with regulations 36(2) of the 'Regulations Prescribing Procedures Regarding Application for, and Amendment, Renewal or Transfer of Spectrum Licenses, published as General Notice No. 104, in Government Gazette No. 6888 dated 29 April 2019, herewith gives notice that TELECOM NAMIBIA LTD has submitted an application for reconsideration, in respect of a decision by the Authority to cancel the spectrum licence (2348-2386 MHz) published as General Notice No. 294, in Government Gazette No. 8384 dated 21 June 2024.

The reasons and grounds for the application for reconsideration are contained in the application that can be inspected at the offices of the Authority.

The public may submit comments in writing to the Authority within a period of fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette .

The applicant may submit written reply comments within fourteen (14) days from the due date of the written public comments.

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submission is made, if different and be clear and concise.

All written submissions and reply comments must be made either physically or electronically -

- (1) by hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (2) by post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek 9000; and
- (3) by electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na.

**E. NGHIKEMBUA**  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---