

## GOVERNMENT GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA

N$2.40

WINDHOEK - 31 October 2025

No. 8770

## CONTENTS

Page

GENERAL NOTICE

No. 807 Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice of intention to amend Regulations Setting Out Fees for Spectrum Licences, Certificates and Examinations: Communications Act, 2009 

---

## Government Notice

## COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

No. 807

## NOTICE OF INTENTION TO AMEND REGULATIONS SETTING OUT FEES FOR SPECTRUM LICENCES, CERTIFICATES AND EXAMINATIONS: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

In terms of section 129(1) of the Communication Act, 2009 read with regulation 4(3) of the Regulations regarding Rule-Making Procedures published as General Notice No. 334 of 17 December 2010 (hereafter 'the Regulations regarding Rule-Making Procedures'). publishes this notice of intention to amend 'Regulations Setting Out Fees For Spectrum Licences, Certificates and Examinations: Communications Act, 2009' which contains the following -

- (a) a concise statement of the purpose for the proposed Regulations as set out in Schedule 1; and
- (b) a draft of the proposed Regulations as set out in Schedule 2.

The Authority invites the provides of services and members of the public to make written submissions to the Authority no later than 30 days from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette .

no later than 15 days after the time for the making of written submissions has lapsed; or if the opportunity for the submission of reply comments is published in a subsequent Gazette , after the lapse of 14 days from the date of such publication.

All written submissions must -

- (a) contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person or entity on whose behalf the written submissions are made, if different; and
- (b) be clear and concise.

In the event that a person making a written submission wishes to designate any information contained therein as confidential, the submission must be clearly marked as 'CONFIDENTIAL'.

All written submissions must be delivered to the Authority either -

- (a) by hand to the head office of the Authority, namely Freedom Plaza Courtside Building (3rd and 4th Floors), c/o Fidel Castro and Rev. Micheal Streets, Windhoek;
- (b) by post to the head office of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek, 10001; or
- (c) by electronic mail to legaldrafting@cran.na.

**T. MUFETI**  
CHAIRPERSON  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

## SCHEDULE 1

## CONCISE STATEMENT OF PURPOSE

The proposed amendment to the Regulations is to revise the deadline for payment of annual spectrum fees for payment from 31 December to 31 March of each subsequent calendar year. The amendment seeks to align payment timelines with the financial year and to prevent unintended lapsing of licences due to year end operations and reduce administrative disruptions.

Furthermore, the proposed amendment seeks to revise the Regulations to provide for the inclusion of an additional frequency range in Table 3 of the Regulations designated for the deployment of international mobile telecommunication services in compliance to the ITU WRC decision as published in the Frequency Band Plan published under General Notice No. 295 of 8 May 2025.

## SCHEDULE 2

No

## PROPOSED AMENDMENT OF REGULATIONS SETTING OUT FEES FOR SPECTRUM LICENCES, CERTIFICATES AND EXAMINATIONS: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia in terms of section 129(1)(f) of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009) amends Regulations Setting Out Fees For Spectrum Licences, Certificates and Examinations: Communications, 2009 published under General Notice No. 417 of 14 October 2020.

**T. MUFETI**  
CHAIRPERSON  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

## SCHEDULE

## Definitions

1. In these regulations 'the regulations' means the Regulations Setting Out Fees For Spectrum Licences, Certificates and Examinations published under General Notice No. 417 of 14 October 2020 as amended by General Notice No. 738 of 6 November 2023.

## Amendment of Regulation 3 of Regulations

2. Regulation 3(1) of the Regulations is amended by the substitution for paragraph (a) of the following paragraph -
'(a) Expires on 31 December of the year of issue subject to subregulation 16(5) of those regulations;'

## Amendment of Regulation 5 of Regulations

3. Regulation 5 of the regulations is amended by the insertion in Table 3 under subregulation (4) after the twelfth item referring to '3300- 3600 MHz' of the following row:

| 3600MHz   | 3800MHz   | 2.25   |
|-----------|-----------|--------|

---