

## GOVERNMENT GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA

N$8.00

WINDHOEK - 14 July 2023

No. 8129

## CONTENTS

Page

## GENERAL NOTICES

No. 377

Communication Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of Section 53(7) of the Communications

Act, 2009 read with the Regulations regarding the Submissions of Interconnection Agreements and

Tariffs 

No. 378

Communication Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations regarding the

Submissions of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs 

---

## General Notices

## COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

No. 377

NOTICE IN TERMS OF SECTION 53(7) OF THE COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009 READ WITH THE REGULATIONS REGARDING THE SUBMISSIONS OF INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENTS AND TARIFFS

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of section 53(1) of the Communications Act read with regulation 8 of the 'Regulations Regarding the Submission of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs', in Government Gazette No. 4714, General Notice No. 126, dated 18 May 2011, herewith gives notice that it has approved:

1. New Aweh Bundles tariffs as submitted by Mobile Telecommunications Limited which come into force and effect on 28 June 2023 , notwithstanding the date of publication of the notice in the Gazette ;

2. Airfibre Services, FTTx packages and Multicast Services tariffs as submitted by Blue Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd which come into force and effect on 30 June 2023 , notwithstanding the date of publication of the notice in the Gazette ;

Please note that the full tariff submission and reasons for approval can be obtained from the Authority.

**E. NGHIKEMBUA**  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

No. 378 2023

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING THE SUBMISSIONS OF INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENTS AND TARIFFS

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of Section 53(10) of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009) read with regulation 8(1) of the 'Regulations Regarding the Submission of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs', in Government Gazette No. 4714, Genral Notice No. 126, dated 18 May 2011, herewith gives notice that Salt Essential Information Technology (Pty) Ltd has filed a tariff with the Authority as set out in Schedule 1.

Any person may examine copies of the tariffs submitted at the head offices of the Authority during normal business hours and copies may be made on payment of a fee determined by the Authority. Copies are also available at www.cran.na where copies may be downloaded free of charge.

The public may submit in writing to the Authority written comments within fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette .

Salt Essential Information Technology (Pty) Ltd may submit, in writing to the Authority, a response to any written comments within fourteen (14) days from the lapsing of the time to submit written submissions.

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submissions is made, if different and be clear and concise.

All written submissions and reply comments must be made either physically or electronically -

- (1) by hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (2) by post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek, 9000; and
- (3) by electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na.

**E. NGHIKEMBUA**  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

## SCHEDULE 1

## SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED TARIFFS BY SALT ESSENTIAL INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (PTY) LTD: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

The proposed Interconnection fee for data services:

| Name                | New Price   | Old Price   |
|---------------------|-------------|-------------|
| Interconnection Fee | N$ 1.15     | N$ 3.58     |

Please note that the full tariff submission including the terms and conditions and the remedies available to the consumers can be obtained from the Authority.

---