
No. 512

Page

| GENERALNOTICES   | GENERALNOTICES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |    |
|------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----|
| No. 512          | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences and Spectrum Use Licences: Communications Act, 2009   |  1 |
| No. 513          | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences and Spectrum Use Licences: Communications Act, 2009    |  2 |
| No. 514          | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the Regulations regarding the Submissions of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs                                                                                                                         |  3 |
| No. 515          | Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of regulation 4(1) of the Regulations prescribing Procedures regarding Application for, and Amendment, Renewal, Transfer and Cancellation of Spectrum Licenses: Communications Act, 2009          |  4 |

---

## General Notices

## COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING LICENSING PROCEDURES FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND BROADCASTING SERVICE LICENCES AND SPECTRUM USE LICENCES: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of regulation 7(3)(e) of the Regulations regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences and Spectrum Use Licences, published in Government Gazette No. 4785, General Notice No. 272, dated 29 August 2011 (as amended), herewith gives notice that Echo Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd application for the transfer of licences and transfer of the control of its Class Comprehensive Telecommunication

## GOVERNMENT GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA

N$8.00

WINDHOEK - 10 September 2024

No. 8437

## CONTENTS

Service Licence (ECS/ECNS) and all Spectrum Licences that were published as General Notice No. 457, in Government Gazette No. 8416, on 15 August 2024 has been withdrawn.

**T. MUFETI**  
CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

No. 513

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING LICENSING PROCEDURES FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND BROADCASTING SERVICE LICENCES AND SPECTRUM USE LICENCES: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of regulation 11(1) of the Regulations regarding Licensing Procedures for Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licences and Spectrum Use Licences, published in Government Gazette No. 4785, General Notice No. 272, dated 29 August 2011 (as amended), herewith gives notice that Echo Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd submitted an application for the Transfer of License and Control of its Class Comprehensive Telecommunication Service Licence (ECS/ECNS) as follows:

| Licensee                          | Type of licenses                                                                                                                                                                             | Transferor                      | Transferee                                           | Percentage of stock being transferred   | Reason for the proposed transfer                                                                      |
|-----------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Echo Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd | Class Comprehensive Telecommunications Service Licence (ECS/ECNS) issued to the licensee in terms of section 38 of the Communications Act, 2009 as published in various Government Gazettes. | Echotel International (Pty) Ltd | Echo Telecommunications Staff Shareholding (Pty) Ltd | 51%                                     | To comply with the Namibian shareholding requirements, 51% will be transferred to Namibian ownership. |

The public may submit comments in writing to the Authority within a period of fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette .

The applicant may submit written reply comments within fourteen (14) days from the due date of the written public comments.

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submission is made, if different and be clear and concise.

All written submissions and reply comments must be made either physically or electronically -

- (1) by hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely CRAN @ Freedom Plaza, Courtside Building, 3rd Floor, c/o Fidel Castro and Rev. Michael Scott Streets, Windhoek;
- (2) by post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek, 9000; and
- (3) by electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na.

**E. NGHIKEMBUA**  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

No. 514

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING THE SUBMISSIONS OF INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENTS AND TARIFFS

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of section 53(10) of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009) read with regulation 8(1) of the 'Regulations regarding the Submission of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs', published in Government Gazette No. 4714, General Notice No. 126, dated 18 May 2011, herewith gives notice that Q-Kon Telecom Namibia (Pty) Ltd has filed a tariff with the Authority as set out in Schedule 1.

Any person may examine copies of the tariffs submitted at the head offices of the Authority during normal business hours and copies may be made on payment of a fee determined by the Authority. Copies are also available at www.cran.na where copies may be downloaded free of charge.

The public may submit in writing to the Authority written comments within fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette .

Q-Kon Telecom Namibia (Pty) Ltd may submit, in writing to the Authority, a response to any written comments within fourteen (14) days from the lapsing of the time to submit written submissions.

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submissions is made, if different and be clear and concise.

All written submissions and reply comments must be made either physically or electronically -

- (1) by hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Courtside Building (3rd and 4th floor), Freedon Plaza, c/o Fidel Castro and Rev. Michael Scott Streets, Windhoek;
- (2) by post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek, 9000; and
- (3) by electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na.

**E. NGHIKEMBUA**  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

## SCHEDULE 1

## SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED TARIFF BY Q-KON TELECOM NAMIBIA (PTY) LTD: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

Q-KON TELECOM NAMIBIA - TWOOBII BROADBAND SERVICES - 12 MONTHS PRICING

| Name         | Download Up to   |   CAPAllowance |   Reseller N$ |   Retail N$ |
|--------------|------------------|----------------|---------------|-------------|
| Smart 20-100 | 20 Mbps          |            100 |         1,335 |       1,669 |
| Smart 20-250 | 20 Mbps          |            250 |         3,337 |       4,172 |
| Smart 30-500 | 30 Mbps          |            500 |         6,675 |       8,344 |
| Smart 30-750 | 30 Mbps          |            750 |        10,012 |      12,516 |
| Smart 30-900 | 30 Mbps          |            900 |        12,015 |      15,019 |

## Q-KON TELECOM NAMIBIA - TWOOBII BROADBAND SERVICES - 24 MONTHS PRICING

| Name         | Download Up to   |   CAPAllowance |   Reseller N$ |   Retail N$ |
|--------------|------------------|----------------|---------------|-------------|
| Smart 20-100 | 20 Mbps          |            100 |         1,214 |       1,517 |
| Smart 20-250 | 20 Mbps          |            250 |         3,034 |       3,793 |
| Smart 30-500 | 30 Mbps          |            500 |         6,068 |       7,585 |
| Smart 30-750 | 30 Mbps          |            750 |         9,102 |      11,378 |
| Smart 30-900 | 30 Mbps          |            900 |        10,923 |      13,653 |

## Product Details

- Pricing are based on a 24 month contract and Excludes 15% VAT.
- Services are billed monthly in advance, available service terms are either 12 or 24 months.
- Customers will be migrated to the next service profile and billed accordingly if actual usage for the contracted profile exceeds the next service profile level for 3 consecutive months.

Please note that the full tariff submission including the terms and conditions and the remedies available to the consumers can be obtained from the Authority.

---

No. 515

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF REGULATION 4(1) OF THE REGULATIONS PRESCRIBING PROCEDURES REGARDING APPLICATION FOR, AND AMENDMENT, RENEWAL, TRANSFER AND CANCELLATION OF SPECTRUM LICENSES: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of regulations 4(1) of the Regulations prescribing Procedures regarding Application for, and Amendment, Renewal, Transfer and Cancellation of Spectrum Licenses, published in Government Gazette No. 6888, General Notice No. 104, on 29 April 2019, herewith gives notice that the following radio frequencies under the Frequency Band Plan are available for application to be conferred on a first-come-first-serve basis:

| Frequencies (MHz)     | Spectrum blocks              | Geographical location             | Service to be provided   |
|-----------------------|------------------------------|-----------------------------------|--------------------------|
| 2500 - 2690 MHz (TDD) | 2595 - 2625 MHz (1 x 30 MHz) | Geographical except Khomas region | MOBILE (IMT)             |
| 2500 - 2690 MHz (TDD) | 2630 - 2650 MHz (1 x 20 MHz) | National                          | MOBILE (IMT)             |

Further, all applicants should note the following:

- (a) Applicants that intend to use the radio frequencies listed above must apply to the Authority for a Spectrum License;
- (b) Applicants must be in good standing with the Authority in that they should not have any outstanding fees.

Applications must be sent or delivered -

- (1) by hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely CRAN @ Freedom Plaza, Courtside Building (3rd and 4th floor), c/o Fidel Castro and Rev. Michael Scott Streets, Windhoek, Namibia.
- (2) by post to the head offices of the Authority, namely CRAN, Private Bag 13309, Windhoek, 9000; and
- (3) by electronic mail to the following address: licensing@cran.na.

**R. LE GRANGE**  
ACTING CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---