

## GOVERNMENT GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA

N$8.00

WINDHOEK - 17 July 2025

No. 8690

## CONTENTS

Page

GENERAL NOTICE

No. 504

Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of Regulations regarding the

Submissions of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs: Communications Act, 2009 

---

## General Notice

## COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

No. 504

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS REGARDING THE SUBMISSIONS OF INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENTS AND TARIFFS: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of section 53(10) of the Communications Act (Act No. 8 of 2009) read with regulation 8(1) of the 'Regulations regarding the Submission of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs', published in Government Gazette No. 4714, General Notice No. 126, dated 18 May 2011, herewith gives notice that Satelio Television Namibia (Pty) Ltd has filed a tariff with the Authority as set out in Schedule 1.

Any person may examine copies of the tariffs submitted at the head offices of the Authority during normal business hours and copies may be made on payment of a fee determined by the Authority. Copies are also available at www.cran.na where copies may be downloaded free of charge.

The public may submit in writing to the Authority written comments within fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette .

Satelio Television Namibia (Pty) Ltd may submit, in writing to the Authority, a response to any written comments within fourteen (14) days from the lapsing of the time to submit written submissions.

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submissions is made, if different and be clear and concise.

All written submissions and reply comments must be made either physically or electronically -

- (1) by hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely CRAN @ Freedom Plaza, Courtside Building (3rd and 4th Floors), c/o Fidel Castro and Rev. Michael Scott Streets, Windhoek;
- (2) by post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek, 9000; or
- (3) by electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na.

**E. NGHIKEMBUA**  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

## SCHEDULE 1

## SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED TARIFF BY SATELIO TELEVISION NAMIBIA (PTY) LTD, COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

## Satelio Multicast Packages

| Package Name                                                |   Speed in Mbps | Current Prices   | New Prices Proposed as from 01/10/2025   |
|-------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------|------------------|------------------------------------------|
| Multicast Satelio Stream Monthly - 12 month contract        |              15 | N$ 799.00        | N$ 839.00                                |
| Multicast Satelio Stream Annually                           |              15 | N$ 8,789.00      | N$ 9,229.00                              |
| Multicast Satelio Stream Month-to-Month                     |              15 | N$ 1,045.00      | N$ 1,099.00                              |
| Multicast Satelio Stream Social Monthly - 12 month contract |              15 | N$ 549.00        | N$ 579.00                                |
| Multicast Satelio Stream Second Subscription Monthly        |              15 | N$ 469.00        | N$ 495.00                                |
| Multicast Satelio Stream Second Subscription Annually       |              15 | N$ 5,159.00      | N$ 5,445.00                              |
| Multicast Sport Stream Annually                             |              10 | N$ 2,879.00      | N$ 2,999.00                              |
| Multicast Sport Stream Monthly - 12 month contract          |              10 | N$ 245.00        | N$ 255.00                                |

Standard installation price in Town: N$ 2,500.00 including VAT. This includes an 80cm dish, wall bracket, 10m cable, one hour labour and call-out fees.

## Product Details

- Modem/Decoder Price: N$ 999.00 including VAT.
- If the customer has already suitable installation hardware it can be reused.

Note: The full tariff submission including the terms and conditions and the remedies available to the consumers can be obtained from the Authority.

---