
No. 203

NOTICE IN TERMS OF SECTION 53(7) OF THE COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009 READ WITH THE REGULATIONS REGARDING THE SUBMISSIONS OF INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENTS AND TARIFFS

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of section 53(1) of the Communications Act read with regulation 8 of the 'Regulations regarding the Submission of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs', in Government Gazette No. 4714, General Notice No. 126, dated 18 May 2011, herewith gives notice that it has approved:

Top-Up Data Bundles tariffs as submitted by Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd which come into force and effect on 14 April 2023 , notwithstanding the date of publication of the notice in the Gazette ;

## GOVERNMENT GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA

N$8.00

## GENERAL NOTICES

| No. 203   | Communication Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of section 53(7) of the Communications Act, 2009 read with the Regulations regarding the Submissions of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs     |   1 |
|-----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----|
| No. 204   | Communication Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of section 53(7) of the Communications Act, 2009 read with the Regulations regarding the Submissions of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs     |   2 |
| No. 205   | Communication Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Notice in terms of the regulations Prescribing the National Numbering Plan for use in the provision of Telecommunications Services in the Republic of Namibia, Numbering Licence fee and Procedures for Number Licences: Communications Act, 2009                                                                 |   2 |

---

## General Notices

## COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

WINDHOEK - 3 May 2023

## CONTENTS

No. 8077

Page Please note that the full tariff submission and reasons for approval can be obtained from the Authority.

**E. NGHIKEMBUA**  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

No. 204

## NOTICE IN TERMS OF SECTION 53(7) OF THE COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009 READ WITH THE REGULATIONS REGARDING THE SUBMISSIONS OF INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENTS AND TARIFFS

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of section 53(1) of the Communications Act read with regulation 8 of the 'Regulations regarding the Submission of Interconnection Agreements and Tariffs', in Government Gazette No. 4714, General Notice No. 126, dated 18 May 2011, herewith gives notice that it has approved:

1. NAMCOL Student Data Packages tariffs as submitted by Telecom Namibia Limited which come into force and effect on 25 April 2023 , notwithstanding the date of publication of the notice in the Gazette ;
2. Jiva Supreme &amp; Prepaid Unlimited Data Boost Packages tariffs as submitted by Telecom Namibia Limited which come into force and effect on 25 April 2023 , notwithstanding the date of publication of the notice in the Gazette ;
3. Showmax Bundles tariffs as submitted by Mobile Telecommunications Limited which come into force and effect on 25 April 2023 , notwithstanding the date of publication of the notice in the Gazette ;
4. Omajova Plus Packages tariffs as submitted by Paratus Telecommunications (Pty) Ltd which come into force and effect on 1 May 2023 , notwithstanding the date of publication of the notice in the Gazette ;

Please note that the full tariff submission and reasons for approval can be obtained from the Authority.

**E. NGHIKEMBUA**  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---

No. 205

NOTICE IN TERMS OF THE REGULATIONS PRESCRIBING THE NATIONAL NUMBERING PLAN FOR USE IN THE PROVISION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES IN THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA, NUMBERING LICENCE FEE AND PROCEDURES FOR NUMBER LICENCES: COMMUINCATIONS ACT, 2009

The Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia, in terms of Regulation 22(1) of the Regulations regarding the National Numbering Plan for Namibia for use in the provision of Telecommunications Services in the Republic of Namibia, Numbering Licence Fees and Procedures for Number Licences as published in Government Gazette No. 5983, General Notice No. 97 dated 1 April 2016, herewith gives notice that the persons referred to in table below, submitted an application for Number Licence to the Authority:

| Applicant's Name      | Applicants' Citizenship or place of incorporation;   | Percentage of Stock owned or controlled by Namibian Citizens;   | Number Category;   |   Short code number applied for; |   Short code to be considered for assignment; | Description of geographic area(s);   | Service to be provided using number applied for;   |
|-------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------|----------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|
| Telecom Namibia Limited | Namibia                                                    | 100%                                                            | Short code         |                              900 |                                           900 | National                               | Emergency short code                               |

The Short Code will be designated as an Emergency Number for Aqua Emergency Care Services CC.

The public may submit comments in writing to the Authority within a period of fourteen (14) days from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette .

The applicant may submit written reply comments within fourteen (14) days from the due date of the written public comments.

All written submissions must contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions and the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submission is made, if different and be clear and concise.

All written submissions and reply comments must be made either physically or electronically -

- (1) By hand to the head offices of the Authority, namely Communication House, 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;
- (2) By post to the head offices of the Authority, namely Private Bag 13309, Windhoek, 9000; and
- (3) By electronic mail to the following address: legal@cran.na.

**E. NGHIKEMBUA**  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

---